          energies
Article
Convective Drying of Ceramic Bricks by CFD:
Transport Phenomena and Process
Parameters Analysis
Morgana de Vasconcellos Araújo 1, * , Balbina Raquel de Brito Correia 1 ,
Vanderson Alves Agra Brandão 1 , Iran Rodrigues de Oliveira 1 , Rosilda Sousa Santos 2 ,
Guilherme Luiz de Oliveira Neto 3 , Leonardo Pereira de Lucena Silva 4 and
Antonio Gilson Barbosa de Lima 1
 1    Department of Mechanical Engineering, Federal University of Campina Grande,
      58428-830 Campina Grande, Paraíba, Brazil; balbinacorreia@hotmail.com (B.R.d.B.C.);
      vanderson_agra@hotmail.com (V.A.A.B.); rodrigues.iran@hotmail.com (I.R.d.O.);
      antonio.gilson@ufcg.edu.br (A.G.B.d.L.)
 2    Department of Science and Technology, Federal Rural University of the Semi-Arid Region,
      59780-000 Caraúbas, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil; rosilda.santos@ufersa.edu.br
 3    Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology of Piauí, 64800-000 Floriano, Piauí, Brazil;
      guilherme@ifpi.edu.br
 4    Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology of Paraíba, 58900-000 Cajazeiras, Paraíba, Brazil;
      lpdelsilva@gmail.com
 *    Correspondence: morganamva@gmail.com; Tel.: +55-83-98669-0075
                                                                                                         
 Received: 14 February 2020; Accepted: 15 April 2020; Published: 21 April 2020                           


 Abstract: In the manufacturing process of ceramic brick, the step of drying needs the control of process
 variables to uniformly dry the porous material, producing a good end-product. The majority of
 numerical simulations involving drying of ceramic materials is performed considering only the solid
 domain, resulting in a very simplified and limited study. This way, the objective of this work is the
 analysis of the drying process with hot air of an industrial hollow clay brick inside the oven at different
 temperatures by using computational fluid dynamic (CFD). The results of the temperature and water
 mass distribution inside the brick and of air in the oven at different times of the drying process are
 shown, analyzed and checked with experimental data, and it was obtained in a concordance with
 the data. An equation to calculate the brick water mass diffusivity depending on the drying air
 temperature was proposed.

 Keywords: numerical simulation; CFX; heat; mass; temperature; moisture




1. Introduction
     The production sector of ceramic clay materials needs improvement in quality control. Despite
the simplicity of the ceramic manufacturing process, the market is supplied with low quality products,
resulting from poor drying—stages of the production chain, which can lead to cracks, deformities or
warping. The final product is verified for factors such as resistance and water absorption. A low-quality
brick (low resistance) can break easily resulting in waste. This may be the main cause of cracks in the walls,
increasing water infiltrations, that may compromise the construction structure of homes and buildings.
     The drying process is one of the most complex unit operations that requires a large energy
consumption and has a wide industrial application that has been used in different wet materials, such
as grains, fruits, vegetables, wood and ceramic products, among others. This operation consists of
removing the moisture of materials by using thermal and mechanical mechanisms. The idea is to


Energies 2020, 13, 2073; doi:10.3390/en13082073                                     www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                            2 of 18



control judiciously the whole process in order to preserve the quality of the final product. Thus, the
optimization of existing drying technologies or the development of newer ones with the purpose of
reducing energy costs and time required to reach the desired moisture in the product, with attention to
the quality control of the material, is extremely important.
      Drying conditions should be determined primarily considering the effects on the quality of the
product and the economy of the process or the convenience of the operation, which are sub-factors [1].
The use of high drying time rates in the brick manufacturing process results in large differences in
moisture content and temperature within the samples, which causes cracks and deformations. In
more severe situations, it can form a relatively impermeable coating of partially dried material, which
inhibits the drying progress, and accentuate the inequality of the moisture content in the sample, and
consequently enhance the tendency for the material to deteriorate.
      When ceramic materials, such as bricks, are manufactured by air optimized processes, it results
in less production time, less waste, lower energy consumption, higher quality product, and they can
be acquired by the consumer for a more affordable price. For this reason, quality control of the final
product is of utmost importance.
      Many researches with experimental and theoretical approaches related to the drying process of
ceramic bricks have been reported in literature [2–9]. However, these studies are focused on bricks of
small dimensions, at a laboratory scale, and few works are related to bricks at the industrial scale and
mainly using computational fluid dynamics as the tool of analysis. Furthermore, it can be seen an
evident lack of interest in conducting researches focusing on the fluid flow phenomena occurring in
the drying environment that directly influences the quality of the final product.
      Numerical simulation technologies that study drying processes have presented several advantages
over experimental works carried out in laboratories and pilot plants, such as:

(a)   The practicality of observing the temperature and moisture gradients, inside the material as
      it dries;
(b)   The possibility of quantifying heat and mass fluxes inside the material over time and space: then,
      it is possible to control the drying process adequately;
(c)   Greater sensitivity to detect the effects of changes in temperature and moisture content inside the
      material, eliminating uncertainties of experimental tests;
(d)   The predictive capacity of the modeling allows the design and optimization of dryers and drying
      processes, eliminating the construction of the prototype, and reducing costs;
(e)   Depending on the problem, numerical simulation can does not require a reduction of scale;
      enabling the study to be performed on a real scale, giving more physical values to the results
      which are obtained.

    To theoretically describe the drying phenomenon, several mechanisms of moisture migration are
proposed in the literature [10–12]:

(a)   Liquid diffusion due to the concentration gradient;
(b)   Vapor diffusion due to the gradient of moisture concentration and partial vapor pressure;
(c)   Liquid movement due to capillary forces;
(d)   Liquid or vapor flux due to differences in total pressure;
(e)   Flux by effusion (Knudsen): important in conditions of high vacuum, as in freeze drying, and
      occurs when the average free path of the vapor molecules is of the same order of magnitude as
      the pore diameter;
(f)   Flux of liquid due to gravity.

     The liquid diffusion theory applied is the simplest of these theories. It only considers moisture
diffusion inside the material in the liquid phase, and the effects such as moisture evaporation and vapor
transport are disregarded. This theory has been applied with success on the drying of clay [13,14],
ceramic tile [15] and ceramic bricks [4,16–18].
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                                     3 of 18



     The existence and maintenance of an appropriated database of the drying process of different
ceramic materials provides an in-depth knowledge. Thus, industrial and research engineers can,
consequently, propose sufficient changes in the operational parameters for the purpose of process
optimization. Furthermore, the use of the CFD tool helps to improve the ceramic brick drying process
database, especially with regard to the data accuracy of experimental studies comparison, lowering the
number of experimental tests.
     In this context, this research is directed to give significant contribution to technological
advancement in the ceramic industry, with regards to the improvement of the drying process efficiency,
with special    attention
           Energies              to PEER
                    2020, 13, x FOR  the REVIEW
                                          quality of the final product. Its purpose is to identify 3better             of 19 drying
conditions (optimized process), with less process time, in order to reduce or eliminate dry material
waste, by optimization.
           using a CFD        Furthermore, the use of the CFD tool helps to improve the ceramic brick drying process
                                 analysis. The authors have contributed to the numerical study of the drying
           database, especially with regard to the data accuracy of experimental studies comparison, lowering
ceramic brick     considering
           the number of experimental  the mass
                                              tests.and heat transfer and fluid flow in the air around the solid in
previous works       [19–22].
                 In this context, this research is directed to give significant contribution to technological
           advancement
     Therefore,                in the ceramic
                     the general                industry,
                                        objective           with regards
                                                     is to analyze    the toconvective
                                                                              the improvement
                                                                                           drying  of of
                                                                                                      thethe
                                                                                                           drying  process
                                                                                                              bricks   by CFD, in a
           efficiency, with special attention to the quality of the final product. Its purpose is to identify better
three-dimensional approach.
           drying conditions (optimized process), with less process time, in order to reduce or eliminate dry
     The material
          numerical         simulation
                      waste, by              wasanalysis.
                                    using a CFD      performed     withhave
                                                            The authors   thecontributed
                                                                                inclusiontoof thethe    external
                                                                                                   numerical       environment to
                                                                                                               study of the
the brick in  the ceramic
           drying    modeling,         considering
                                brick considering   the the previously
                                                        mass and           predicted
                                                                 heat transfer           variables
                                                                                and fluid flow         by the
                                                                                               in the air       software—such as
                                                                                                          around the solid
convectiveinheat
              previous
                     andworks
                            mass[19–22].
                                      transfer coefficients—by using the velocity at which the air surrounds the
                 Therefore, the general objective is to analyze the convective drying of the bricks by CFD, in a
ceramic brick, making the process closer to the real. The simulation with the external medium can
           three-dimensional approach.
show that the Thebrick     dryingsimulation
                       numerical       is not aswas
                                                  symmetrical      as ithe
                                                      performed with     has   been reported
                                                                           inclusion              in the
                                                                                      of the external      literature.
                                                                                                       environment   to the
             brick in the modeling, considering the previously predicted variables by the software—such as
2. Methodology
         convective heat and mass transfer coefficients—by using the velocity at which the air surrounds the
             ceramic brick, making the process closer to the real. The simulation with the external medium can
2.1. Experimental  Procedure
           show that the brick drying is not as symmetrical as it has been reported in the literature.

      The 2.
          drying    experiments were performed with industrial clay bricks using an oven with controlled
              Methodology
temperature and air velocity conditions. In the process, at 10-minute intervals during the drying, data
           2.1. Experimental Procedure
of mass and temperature (at the vertex) of the sample were collected. The drying process was realized
until the massThe     drying
                  of the       experiments
                           brick  reachedwere      performed
                                             a constant           with Afterward,
                                                             value.     industrial claythebricks  usingwas
                                                                                             sample      an oven
                                                                                                              keptwith
                                                                                                                    at a constant
           controlled temperature and air velocity conditions. In the process, at 10-minute intervals during the
temperature    for  24  hours   inside  the  oven,   with   the   aim   of  obtaining    a  uniform    moisture
           drying, data of mass and temperature (at the vertex) of the sample were collected. The drying process
                                                                                                                   content.   Then,
the sample    was    placed    inside  the  oven    at  105   ◦ C, for 24 hs, to obtain a dry brick mass [6,23]. The
           was realized until the mass of the brick reached a constant value. Afterward, the sample was kept at
experiments    were performed
           a constant                under
                        temperature for       atmospheric
                                         24 hours inside         pressure.
                                                           the oven,  with the aim of obtaining a uniform moisture
           content.
      A digital      Then, (accuracy
                 balance    the sample was
                                        ± 1 placed  inside
                                             g, model       the oven
                                                          KC-01        at 105 °C,
                                                                   Western        for 24 hs, to
                                                                               company)         obtain a dry
                                                                                              measured       brick
                                                                                                           the     mass
                                                                                                                mass   of the brick,
           [6,23]. The experiments were performed under atmospheric      ◦    pressure.
and an infrared     thermometer (range from −50 to 1000 C, model TI 890, Instrutherm) measured the
                 A digital balance (accuracy ± 1 g, model KC-01 Western company) measured the mass of the
brick temperature      [6,23].
           brick, and an        A digital
                          infrared          vane(range from
                                   thermometer     anemometer         (accuracy
                                                                −50 to 1000         of ±
                                                                             °C, model  TI 2%,
                                                                                           890, model    AMI 300,
                                                                                                Instrutherm)  measuredInstrutemp)
was used tothe brick   temperature
              measure the       air [6,23].
                                    velocity,A and
                                                digital
                                                      a vane    anemometer (accuracy
                                                        thermohygrometer            (model of ±HT2%,  model
                                                                                                    208,      AMIto300,
                                                                                                          ICEL)      measure the
           Instrutemp)
relative humidity     and was used to measure
                            temperature     of the
                                                theair
                                                     airvelocity,
                                                         external andtoa thermohygrometer
                                                                          the oven. The clay   (model  HT and
                                                                                                   brick   208, ICEL)
                                                                                                                 oventoused in the
           measure the relative humidity and temperature of the air external to the oven. The clay brick and
experiments    are shown in Figure 1.
           oven used in the experiments are shown in Figure 1.




                                                   Figure
                                                Figure 1. 1.Ceramic
                                                             Ceramic brick
                                                                     brickinin
                                                                             thethe
                                                                                 oven.
                                                                                    oven.

             Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                     www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                       4 of 18

Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                          4 of 19
Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                          4 of 19
2.2. Mathematical and Computational Modeling
2.2. Mathematical and Computational Modeling
2.2. Mathematical and Computational Modeling
2.2.1. The Geometry and Mesh
      2.2.1. The Geometry and Mesh
      2.2.1.study
      The     The Geometry   and Mesh
                   domain (Figure    2) consists of a hollow ceramic brick inside the oven. The brick is
placedTheat study
             a     domain
               height of    (Figure
                         16.5 cm     2) the
                                  above  consists of a hollow
                                              base.            ceramic  brick8 inside the  oven.  The brick is
      The study domain (Figure 2) consists        of The ceramic
                                                     a hollow     brick brick
                                                               ceramic   has    holes the
                                                                               inside [23].oven.
                                                                                            In theThe
                                                                                                   numerical
                                                                                                      brick is
placed   at a the
simulation,    height of was
                   brick  16.5 cm  abovewith
                               inserted    the the
                                               base. The  ceramic
                                                   channels  open  brick
                                                                   in a  has  8 holes [23].
                                                                        position            In theto the
                                                                                  perpendicular     numerical
                                                                                                         flow
placed at a height of 16.5 cm above the base. The ceramic brick has 8 holes [23]. In the numerical
simulation,
direction      the 2),
            (Figurebrick was   inserted
                       according         with the
                                   to thewith      channels
                                          experimental       open in a position perpendicular to the flow
                                                        drying.
simulation,    the brick was inserted          the channels  open in a position perpendicular to the flow
direction (Figure 2), according to the experimental drying.
direction (Figure 2), according to the experimental drying.




                                (a)                                                      (b)
                                (a)                                                      (b)
                 Figure 2.
                 Figure 2. Geometry representative of the (a)
                                                          (a) oven
                                                              oven with
                                                                   with ceramic
                                                                        ceramic brick
                                                                                brick and
                                                                                      and (b)
                                                                                          (b) brick.
                                                                                              brick.
                 Figure 2. Geometry representative of the (a) oven with ceramic brick and (b) brick.

     The
     The geometry
          geometryand
                   andmesh
                       mesh(Figure
                             (Figure3)3)were
                                         wereconstructed
                                              constructedusing ICEM
                                                           using ICEMCFD
                                                                      CFD15.0 software.
                                                                            15.0        The
                                                                                 software.  mesh
                                                                                           The   of
                                                                                               mesh
     The geometry and mesh (Figure 3) were constructed using ICEM CFD 15.0 software. The mesh
the brick was made using the blocking  method,  having  673,625 hexahedral elements.
of the brick was made using the blocking method, having 673,625 hexahedral elements.
of the brick was made using the blocking method, having 673,625 hexahedral elements.




                                      (a)                                        (b)
                                      (a)                                        (b)
                                Figure 3. Mesh of the (a) full domain and (b) brick.
                                Figure 3. Mesh of the (a) full domain and (b) brick.
                                Figure 3.

      2.2.2.
2.2.2.2.2.2. Governing
       Governing         Equations
                    Equations
             Governing   Equations
      (a) Solid phase
      (a)       phase
      (a) Solid
          Solid phase
      The water mass (moisture) was inserted like an additional variable. The transport equation for
      The water mass (moisture) was inserted like an additional variable. The transport equation for
this The   water
     variable      mass by:
               is given (moisture) was inserted like an additional variable. The transport equation for
this variable is given by:
this variable is given by:                 ∂m
                                           𝜕𝑚  = ∇·(Dms ∆m)                                         (1)
                                            ∂t
                                           𝜕𝑚         (𝐷ms Δ𝑚)                                     (1)
                                               = ∇ ∙ (𝐷                                            (1)
                                           𝜕𝑡 = ∇ ∙ ms Δ𝑚)
                                           𝜕𝑡



Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                             www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                             www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                5 of 18



where m is the water mass inside the solid material in the time t, and Dms represents the mass
diffusion coefficient.
     The heat transfer equation is given by:

                                             ∂(ρS HS )
                                                       = ∇·(λS ∇TS )                                      (2)
                                                ∂t
where ρS is the specific mass, HS is the enthalpy, λS is the thermal conductivity, and TS is the temperature
of the solid phase.
     (b) Fluid phase
     The mass conservation equation for the air in the fluid domain is given as follow:

                                               ∂ρ f             
                                                       + ∇· ρ f U = 0                                     (3)
                                                ∂t
where ρ f is the specific mass of air, and U is the air speed vector in the oven.
    The transport equation that describes the flow of water in the fluid domain is given by:

                                           ∂m                      
                                              + ∇·(mU) = ∇· Dm f ∆m                                       (4)
                                           ∂t
where m is the water mass in the air, and Dmf is the water diffusivity into the air.
    The momentum conservation equation is given as follows:
                                
                          ∂ ρf U
                                     = −∇· ρ f UU − ∇p + ∇· µe f f ∇U + (∇U)T + SM
                                                         n      h          io
                                                                                                          (5)
                            ∂t
where ∇p is the pressure gradient, µeff is the effective fluid dynamic viscosity, and SM is source term of
linear momentum.
     The κ-ε turbulence model was chosen to predict the turbulence behavior of the fluid flow in
the domain, being considered an industry standard model [24]. Because the low air velocity and the
occurrence of a weak vortex formation after the brick, a more careful study of turbulence models has
not been carried out. For this model, the effective fluid dynamic viscosity is given by:

                                                  µe f f = µ + µt                                         (6)

where µ is the fluid dynamic viscosity, and µt is de turbulent viscosity defined as follows:

                                                                  κ2
                                                      µt = Cµ ρ                                           (7)
                                                                  ε
where Cµ is a constant value equal to 0.09, and κ and ε represent the turbulent kinetic energy and
turbulent kinetic energy dissipation rate, respectively.
    This turbulence model is classified as a two-equation model [24]:

                          ∂(ρκ)    ∂            ∂         µt  ∂κ
                                                     "            #
                                             
                                +      ρU j κ =         µ+           + Pκ − ρε + Pκb                      (8)
                            ∂t    ∂x j          ∂x j       σκ ∂x j

                    ∂(ρε)    ∂            ∂        µt  ∂ε    ε
                                               "           #
                                       
                          +      ρU j ε =        µ+           + (Cε1 Pκ − Cε2 ρε + Cε1 Pκb )              (9)
                      ∂t    ∂x j          ∂x j      σε ∂x j    κ
where Cε1 , Cε2 , σκ and σε are constants of which the values are: 1.44, 1.92; 1.0 and 1.3, respectively, Pκb
and Pk are parameters that represent the influence of buoyancy forces. More details about this model
can be found in the literature [25].
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                              6 of 18



     For heat transfer in the fluid, the model of thermal energy was adopted, which is suitable for low
speed flows. Disregarding the internal heating by friction effects in the fluid and the source term, the
heat transfer equation is given as follows:
                                                
                                         ∂ ρf Hf                              
                                                     + ∇· ρ f UH f = ∇· λ f ∇T f                         (10)
                                             ∂t
      λf is the air thermal conductivity, Hf is the air enthalpy and Tf is the air temperature.

2.2.3. Initial and Boundary Conditions
(a)   Solid Phase

      •      Initial conditions:

             #        Prescribed temperature, Ts_in ;
             #        Prescribed water mass, ms_in ;
      •      Boundary conditions:

             #        Conservative interface flux at the interface between the solid and fluid phases.
(b)   Fluid Phase

      •      Initial conditions:

             #        Prescribed temperature inside the oven, Tf ;
             #        Prescribed water mass inside the oven, mf_in ;
      •      Boundary conditions:
                                                                           .
             #        Prescribed air flow rate in the oven inlet, mdry air
                                                                               .
             #        Prescribed water flow rate in the oven inlet, mwater
             #        Conservative interface flux at the interface between the solid and fluid phases
                      was used;
             #        Average pressure of 101,325 Pa in the oven outlet.

2.2.4. Interface between the Solid and Fluid Phases
      To consider the flux of a variable (mass or energy) between the domains, the condition of
conservative interface flux at the interface of the brick was adopted. This boundary condition means that
the flux of a specified variable of the brick (solid phase) crosses the interface without losses and flows
through the air (fluid phase). Then, the equation that the software uses for this type of condition is:
                                                                                           
                                   − Dm f ∇minter f ace = hm minter f ace − meq−inter f ace              (11)

where minterface is the instantaneous water mass of the interface; meq−interface is the water mass at
equilibrium conditions, both provided by numerical simulation at the final time of the drying process,
and hm is the convective mass transfer coefficient, which is calculated by using the mass diffusivity value.
     For the temperature, the convective heat flux equals the diffusive heat flux at the brick surface
as follows:                                                                           
                               − λ f ∇Tinter f ace = hC Teq−inter f ace − Tinter f ace                 (12)

where λf is the thermal conductivity of the air; Tinterface is the temperature at the interface at each
time instant; Teq−interface is the temperature at equilibrium condition and hC is the convective heat
transfer coefficient, which is calculated as a result of the numerical simulation at the final time of the
drying process.
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                                  7 of 18



2.2.5. Process Parameters and Studied Cases
            The thermophysical properties of the brick and air used for all studied cases are:

•           Solid domain (clay brick):

            #           Specific mass: 1985.8 kg/m3 [23]
            #           Specific heat capacity: 1673 J/(kg·K) [23]
            #           Thermal conductivity: 1.675 W/(m·K) [26]
•           Fluid domain (air as an ideal gas):

            #           Specific heat capacity: 1004.4 J/(kg·K) [27]
            #           Thermal conductivity: 0.0261 W/(m·K) [27]
            #           Dynamic viscosity: 1.831 × 10−5 kg/(m·s) [27]

      Since the temperature gradient in the air is not large enough to cause significant changes in the
specific heat capacity, thermal conductivity and dynamic viscosity, it was considered constant along
the process. These parameters and density are established in the Ansys CFX software.
      The moisture diffusivity of the brick (DS ) varied for each air drying temperature. As in the present
study, it was decided to use the water mass in the solid and fluid domains, instead of the dry basis
moisture content in the material. Thus, the diffusion coefficient of moisture in the brick had to be
adapted, for this new condition. In addition, the brick is being considered as a solid domain, unlike
the real brick, which is a porous material.
      All parameters used in the simulation can be found in Table 1, where Dms is the initial value of the
moisture diffusivity of the brick, Ts_in is the brick initial temperature, Urel is the air relative humidity,
                                                                                           .
ms_in is the initial water mass on brick, mf_in is the initial water mass in the oven, mdry air is the mass
                  .
flow rate of air, mwater is the mass flow rate of water, Dmf is the moisture diffusivity in air and ttotal is the
total drying time.

                            Table 1. Useful data for the numerical simulations of ceramic brick drying.

        Tf [◦ C] *              50              60              70                80              90             100
    Dms [m2 /s] *           4.0 × 10−10     0.3 × 10−10     0.9 × 10−10       8.0 × 10−10     10 × 10−10      16 × 10−10
    Ts_in [◦ C] *               20.6           20.5             26               21.4             21             26.1
        Urel [%] *             20.80           13.58           7.68              4.68            3.30            1.80
        U [m/s] *               0.05           0.06            0.07              0.08            0.09            0.10
     ms_in [g] *                365            386             408               394             420             440
            mf_in [g]         2.62601        2.68886         2.30198           2.06730         2.10014         1.60376
    .
    mdry air [g/s]           13.65458        15.89367        18.00225          19.99141        21.87102        23.64989
        .
    mwater [g/s]              0.22092        0.27145         0.27112           0.27827         0.31802         0.26984
    Dmf [m2 /s]             2.728 × 10−5   2.8948 × 10−5   3.0662 × 10−5     3.2419 × 10−5   3.4218 × 10−5   3.6058 × 10−5
    ttotal [min] *              990            820             950               900             690             860
                                                            * Source [23].



     At the interface between the liquid and solid domains, the condition of conservative flux was
inserted, so, the water mass that migrates inside the brick by diffusion, crosses the interface and
penetrates in the liquid medium by convection.
     All simulations are transient, with a time step of 10 seconds and an average quadratic residue
     −8
of 10 .
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                              8 of 18



2.2.6. Statistical Treatment of Data
    For providing reliability to the adopted mathematical model, the statistical treatment of dispersion
measurement was used.
    (a) Dispersion Analysis
    The relative error (ERMQ) is given by the sum of the squares of the differences between the
numerical values, Vnum , and the experimental values, Vexp , as follows:

                                                 n 
                                                 X                   2
                                       ERMQ =          Vnum − Vexp                                     (13)
                                                 i=1

where n is the number of experimental points.
    The variance of the residuals squares (δV 2 ) is given by:

                                                       ERMQ
                                              δV 2 =                                                   (14)
                                                       n − np

where np is the number of fitted parameters (number of degrees of freedom) [23]. The effective
moisture diffusivity of the brick was obtained by minimizing the values of ERMQ and δV 2 after the
fitting process.
      This procedure was carried out for each drying condition, as specified in Table 1.
      As the only variable to be fitted is the mass diffusion coefficient, since the other values were taken
from the literature or calculated during the numerical simulation, np is equal to 1.
      (b) Mass Diffusion Coefficient of the Brick as a Function of Temperature
      Diffusion phenomena can occur in fluid (gaseous and liquids) and solid materials. Mass diffusion
of gases, vapor and liquids in porous materials is a more complex phenomenon than diffusion in
liquids. This fact occurs because porous materials usually have heterogeneous structures, and they may
interact with the diffusing compounds. Thus, diffusion velocity of molecules inside these porous solids
is lower than in fluids, and this effect alters the physical and chemical process velocities involving
mass transfer, and consequently, the mass transport parameters.
      According to water migration mechanisms through porous materials listed before, in theory, the
estimative and determination of the mass transport parameters associated with each one of these
mechanisms can be done in different ways.
      When we use, for example, the liquid transport by pressure gradient or capillary forces
(capillary flow theory), in general, the transport parameters are the permeability and porosity
of the porous material, and Darcy’s law has been utilized appropriately. This theory has been well
applied in water flux processes in almost dry brick, concrete block, unsaturated soil, membranes, etc.
However, when the liquid transport occurs by concentration gradients (liquid diffusion theory), the
main transport parameter is the mass diffusion coefficient, and Fick´s law of diffusion is well utilized.
This theory has been applied appropriately in the drying process of different materials, such as wet
brick, wood, grains, fruits and vegetables.
      It is well-known that the mass diffusion coefficient is strongly dependent on the different
geometrical (size, shape and distribution of the pores, shape, dimensions, tortuosity, porosity,
constrictivity of the porous material, etc.) and physical (moisture, temperature, pressure, etc.)
parameters. However, because of the complex structure of the pore network, some assumptions have
been made, and the usual way to estimate the mass diffusion coefficient is to consider it to be constant
along the process (effective moisture diffusion coefficient that incorporates all the cited effects).
      Thus, moisture diffusivity was considered to be dependent only on the drying air temperature.
Its dependence can be described by the Arrhenius equation as follows:

                                                         −Ea
                                                            
                                           Dms = D0 exp                                                (15)
                                                         RT
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                                               9 of 18



where D0 [m2 /s] is the Arrhenius factor, Ea [kJ/mol] is the activation energy for diffusion, R [kJ/(kmol.K)]
is the gas constant and T [K] is the absolute temperature.
      Effective moisture diffusivity is the key drying parameter that represents the moisture migration
velocity and incorporates all moisture transfer mechanisms present in the brick during the process.
This parameter is usually determined by the drying curves. Activation energy is another important
drying parameter that represents the energy level of water molecules for moisture diffusion and
evaporation [28].
      Applying the Neperian logarithm on both sides of Equation (15), Equation (16) is found, which
resembles Energies
            the equation        of the line with angular coefficient Ea /R and linear coefficient ln(D
                   2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                      9 of 0
                                                                                                         19
                                                                                                           ):
             Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                       9 of 19

                                                                      Ea 1
                                                                        
             3.3.Results
                 Resultsand
                         andDiscussion
                            Discussion              ln(Dms ) = −           + ln(D0 )                                                    (16)
                                                                      R T
              3.1.Transient
             3.1. TransientAnalysis
                            AnalysisofofMass
                                        MassTransfer
                                             Transfer
with the use of Equation (16), a linear regression is found using the Grapher software.
                  Inorder
                 In  ordertotoexpose
                               exposethethereliability
                                            reliabilityofofthe
                                                            themathematical
                                                                mathematicalmodelmodelused
                                                                                         usedin
                                                                                              insimulations,
                                                                                                  simulations,the thecomparison
                                                                                                                      comparison
            betweenthe
           between     theaverage
                            averagewater
                                      watermass
                                             massof ofthe
                                                        theceramic
                                                             ceramic brick
                                                                        brickand
                                                                              and the
                                                                                    theexperimental
                                                                                        experimental data
                                                                                                        datawas
                                                                                                             was mademadeduring
                                                                                                                           during
3. Resultstheand
            the     Discussion
                process,
               process,    forall
                          for  alldrying-air
                                  drying-airconditions
                                               conditionsreported
                                                             reportedin inTable
                                                                           Table1.1.These
                                                                                     Thesecomparisons
                                                                                           comparisonsare areshown
                                                                                                               shownin  inFigures
                                                                                                                           Figures
            4–6.
           4–6.
3.1. Transient Analysis
                  Afterthe
                 After        of MassofofTransfer
                         theanalysis
                              analysis     thesefigures,
                                          these  figures,we wecan
                                                                canstate,
                                                                      state,qualitatively,
                                                                             qualitatively,that
                                                                                            thatthe
                                                                                                 thenumerical
                                                                                                     numericalcurves
                                                                                                                   curvesfit
                                                                                                                           fitwell
                                                                                                                               well
            with the
           with    the experimental
                        experimental data.
                                         data. Note
                                                Note that
                                                        that at
                                                              at all
                                                                  all drying
                                                                       drying temperatures,
                                                                                temperatures, the
                                                                                                the decay
                                                                                                     decay displayed
                                                                                                             displayed by   by the
                                                                                                                                the
      In order   to expose
            numericalresults
           numerical
                                the
                         resultsof
                                     reliability
                                  ofthe
                                     theamount
                                          amountof
                                                              mathematical
                                                        the contained
                                                    ofwater
                                                   ofwater     containedin  inthe
                                                                                    model
                                                                               thesolid
                                                                                             usedfollowed
                                                                                    solidmaterial
                                                                                                    in simulations,
                                                                                         materialfollowed
                                                                                                                           the comparison
                                                                                                               theexperimental
                                                                                                              the    experimental
between the    average
            data
           data    behavior.
                  behavior. water
                               Thesemass
                               These         ofgive
                                        results
                                       results   the credibility
                                                give   ceramic      brick
                                                       credibility to to  theand the
                                                                         the            experimental
                                                                              mathematical
                                                                              mathematical             usedata
                                                                                              model used
                                                                                              model           in the
                                                                                                             in     was
                                                                                                                   the    made during the
                                                                                                                        numerical
                                                                                                                       numerical
            simulations.
process, for all
           simulations.     Furthermore,
                   drying-air      conditions
                           Furthermore,      we can
                                            we        see
                                                 can see
                                                   reportedthat the
                                                          that   in    higher1.
                                                                 theTable
                                                                     higher    theThese
                                                                              the   temperature,   the higher
                                                                                          comparisons
                                                                                   temperature,   the   higher
                                                                                                            are  the
                                                                                                                the   drying in
                                                                                                                    shown
                                                                                                                     drying    rate;
                                                                                                                                  Figures 4–6.
                                                                                                                              rate;
            thus,the
           thus,   thesolid
                       soliddries
                              driesquickly.
                                    quickly.




                        Average
              Figure 4.Figure
                        Figure      waterwater
                                  Average
                              4.4.Average mass
                                          water  of ofof
                                                mass
                                               mass thethebrick
                                                         the brickas
                                                            brick as     function
                                                                   asaaafunction
                                                                         function    thethe
                                                                                    of
                                                                                  ofthe
                                                                                 of         drying
                                                                                         drying
                                                                                        drying       (50
                                                                                                time(50
                                                                                               time      and(50
                                                                                                      time
                                                                                                        and      and 60 ◦ C).
                                                                                                              60°C).
                                                                                                             60°C).




                        Figure
              Figure 5.Figure 5.5.Average
                         Average  Average water
                                    waterwater
                                           mass  of ofof
                                                mass
                                               mass  the the
                                                        the  brickas
                                                            brick
                                                           brick   asaa
                                                                  as  afunction
                                                                        function
                                                                        function ofthe
                                                                                of  thethe
                                                                                    of  drying
                                                                                       drying  time(70
                                                                                              time
                                                                                            drying  (70 and80
                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                     time  (70  and 80 ◦ C).
                                                                                                            80°C).
                                                                                                               °C).




              Energies2020,
             Energies  2020,12,
                             12,x;x;doi:
                                     doi:FOR
                                          FORPEER
                                              PEERREVIEW
                                                   REVIEW                                       www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
                                                                                                www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                                                                  10 of 18
                Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                       10 of 19


   Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                       10 of 19




                Figure
              Figure 6. 6.  Average
                       Average water   water
                                     mass of     mass
                                             the brick as aofunction
                                                              the of
                                                                   brick
                                                                      the as  a time
                                                                          dryingfunction
                                                                                     (90 andof   °C).drying time (90 and 100 ◦ C).
                                                                                             100the
                             Figure 6. Average water mass of the brick as a function of the drying time (90 and 100 °C).
        Figure 7 shows the moisture distribution (dry basis) on the brick surface for drying at 90 °C. Due
  to the  flow ofthe
       After              analysis
                        Figure
                   drying
                                   7 shows
                             air from right ofto these
                                                the         figures,
                                                     moisture               we
                                                                  distribution
                                                  left (perpendicular      to     can
                                                                              the ZY
                                                                                    (dry  state,
                                                                                           basis)
                                                                                       plane),
                                                                                                              brick surfacethat
                                                                                                      qualitatively,
                                                                                                    on the
                                                                                               it is noted   that the superior
                                                                                                                                 for the    numerical
                                                                                                                                     drying at 90 °C. Due curves fit
well   inferiorto
  and with       thethe flow
                        experimental
                  vertices        of drying
                             on the  brick right airside,
                                                     fromwhich
                                                   data.     right
                                                              Note    inleft
                                                                   isto  that (perpendicular
                                                                          direct at  all with
                                                                                 contact  drying        the ZY
                                                                                                 thetodrying      plane),
                                                                                                         temperatures,
                                                                                                               air,         it is noted
                                                                                                                    dries faster         that thedisplayed
                                                                                                                                   the decay     superior    by the
  compared toand       inferior
                   other  regions ofvertices
                                        the on       the brick right side, which is in direct contact with the drying air, dries faster
                                             material.
numerical         results
                 compared
        It is also noted
                              ofthe
                           that to
                                   the
                                     other
                                          amount
                                              regions of
                                      surface that
                                                         of the
                                                             water       contained in the solid material followed the experimental data
                                                                  material.
                                                       characterizes    the hollow region of the ceramic brick remains
behavior.
  wetter         These
            than the         results      give     credibility
                        It is also noted that the surface that in
                      others,    due   to  the  low   air flow         to
                                                                 velocity   the   mathematical
                                                                                this region.
                                                                             characterizes    This
                                                                                               the hollow  model
                                                                                                      difference   in used
                                                                                                                      moisture
                                                                                                                 region              the numerical
                                                                                                                          of theinceramic              simulations.
                                                                                                                                            brick remains
  affects the drying     process
Furthermore,     wetter we     canand
                            than         proves
                                    thesee    that
                                          others,  the
                                                     dueusefulness
                                                       the   higher
                                                            to the     of theair
                                                                      low  theCFD   technique
                                                                                 temperature,
                                                                                 flow    velocity          purpose.
                                                                                                      thisthis
                                                                                                 for in
                                                                                                          the    higherThis
                                                                                                                region.             drying in
                                                                                                                             thedifference    rate; thus, the solid
                                                                                                                                                 moisture
        From the analysis of Figure 7, we state that a 90-degree rotation of the ceramic brick around the
dries    quickly.affects the drying process and proves the usefulness of the CFD technique for this purpose.
  Z axis would     favor the flow of air in the hollow region and would reduce the difference between the
  moisture     observed
                        From     thesurface.
                            on thethe
                                      analysis      of Figure 7, weposition
                                                 Thus, due to the
                                                                           state that the
                                                                                        a 90-degree       rotation   of  the ceramic brick around the ◦
       Figure       7 shows                moisture         distribution of                 materialon
                                                                                  (dry basis)            inside
                                                                                                            the the   oven, an
                                                                                                                  brick     surface for drying at 90 C. Due
  asymmetric Z      axis would
                  drying   occurs. favor the flow of air in the hollow region and would reduce the difference between the
to theInflow       of  drying
                 moisture
             simulations     where   air
                                observed    from
                                      only the on the rightof
                                                   domain surface.  left
                                                               toceramic   (perpendicular
                                                                        Thus,    due
                                                                             brick  is to the
                                                                                        considered    to the
                                                                                                 position     ofZY the it is
                                                                                                       [4,23,29–31],         not it is
                                                                                                                       plane),
                                                                                                                        material          noted
                                                                                                                                     inside  the oven, the superior
                                                                                                                                                  that an
and   inferior
  possible           vertices
                 asymmetric
               to observe     the on
                                   drying  the
                                    asymmetry     bricktheright
                                               occurs.
                                                     in               side,
                                                               variable        which
                                                                            at the         is of
                                                                                     surface  in thedirectbrick.contact
                                                                                                                  Asymmetric with the drying air, dries faster
  dehumidificationIn     is important
                             simulations  to study, as it    can the
                                                                  causedomain
                                                                           defects inofthe brick during      burning,   such as [4,23,29–31], it is not
compared          to other
  cracks and deformations.
                                  regions where  of theonly material.                    ceramic      brick is     considered
                 possible to observe the asymmetry in theEnergies                      variable
                                                                                           2020, 13,at   thePEER
                                                                                                     x FOR     surface
                                                                                                                  REVIEW of the brick. Asymmetric                      11 of 19

                dehumidification is important to study, as it can cause defects in the brick during burning, such as
                Moisture content [g/g, d.b.]               Moisture content [g/g, d.b.]       Moisture content [g/g, d.b.]
                cracks and deformations.

                                Moisture content [g/g, d.b.]                                    Moisture content [g/g, d.b.]




                        (a) 10 minutes                                          (b) 60 minutes                             (c) 690 minutes
   Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                  www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
                                                              Figure 7. Moisture content distribution on the brick surface for drying at 90 °C at different
        Figure 7. Moisture content distribution on the brick surface for drying at 90 ◦ C at different durations.
                                                                                                      durations.

     It is also noted that the surface that characterizes    Figuresthe   hollow
                                                                      8–11 show       region
                                                                                  the field of of
                                                                                                waterthe  ceramic
                                                                                                      mass in          brick
                                                                                                                the oven        remains
                                                                                                                          for drying air at 90 °C. Note that at the
                                    (a) 10 minutes                                   (b)min),
                                                       initial instant of drying (t = 0  60 the
                                                                                             minutes
                                                                                                  water mass distribution is almost uniform, containing only the
wetter than the others, due to the low air flow velocity           in this region. This difference
                                                       mass equivalent to the absolute humidity of the
                                                                                                                 in moisture affects
                                                                                                             drying air. Throughout the process, it is noticed that
            Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                      www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
the drying process and proves the usefulness of        thethe    CFDit flows
                                                            air, when    technique
                                                                                over the for
                                                                                         brick,this  purpose.
                                                                                                transports  the mass of water lost by the material. This is clearly
                                                       observable by the hue in the mass field, especially in the left side region of the brick.
     From the analysis of Figure 7, we state that          a 90-degree rotation of the ceramic brick around the
                                                             Due to the position of the brick inside the oven, air accumulates in the hollow region of the brick.
Z axis would favor the flow of air in the hollow               region
                                                       This justifies     andthat
                                                                      the fact   would      reduce
                                                                                    these regions       thedifficult
                                                                                                  are more    difference       between
                                                                                                                      to dehumidify,  and also to heat up. It is also
the moisture observed on the surface. Thus, due        possible
                                                              to to
                                                                  theobserve,
                                                                        positionnear the
                                                                                       of brick  surface, a region
                                                                                           the material        insidewiththe
                                                                                                                           a high  water–mass
                                                                                                                               oven,    an       gradient and the
                                                       concentration boundary layer. The results prove that there is a symmetry between the upper and
asymmetric drying occurs.                              lower part of the XZ plane.
     In simulations where only the domain of ceramic               brick
                                                             To reach  the is  considered
                                                                           values of            [4,23,29–31],
                                                                                      the best mass  diffusivity of it
                                                                                                                    theis notseveral
                                                                                                                        brick,  possible
                                                                                                                                      numerical simulations were
                                                       made, in each drying air conditions. For each temperature, the mass diffusivity varied, producing
to observe the asymmetry in the variable at thedifferent surface      of  the   brick.    Asymmetric          dehumidification           is
                                                                  drying kinetics, and which the average moisture content values of the brick were compared
important to study, as it can cause defects in thewith  brick     during data.
                                                             experimental    burning, such as cracks and deformations.
                   Figures 8–11 show the field of water mass in the oven for drying air at 90 °C. Note that at the
             initial instant of drying (t = 0 min), the water mass distribution is almost uniform, containing only the
             mass equivalent to the absolute humidity of the drying air. Throughout the process, it is noticed that
             the air, when it flows over the brick, transports the mass of water lost by the material. This is clearly
Energies 2020,observable
               13, 2073 by the hue in the mass field, especially in the left side region of the brick.                       11 of 18
                   Due to the position of the brick inside the oven, air accumulates in the hollow region of the brick.
             This justifies the fact that these regions are more difficult to dehumidify, and also to heat up. It is also
             possible to observe, near the brick surface, a region with a high water–mass gradient              and the
      Figures    8–11 show the field of water mass in the oven for drying air at 90 ◦ C. Note that at the
             concentration boundary layer. The results prove that there is a symmetry between the upper and
initial instant
             lowerofpart
                       drying      =plane.
                          of the(tXZ  0 min), the water mass distribution is almost uniform, containing only the
mass equivalent    To to   thethe values
                       reach    absolute     humidity
                                          of the best massof the  drying
                                                           diffusivity      air.
                                                                       of the    Throughout
                                                                              brick, several      the process,
                                                                                             numerical          it is
                                                                                                       simulations     noticed that
                                                                                                                    were
the air, whenmade,    in each over
                  it flows     dryingthe
                                       air brick,
                                           conditions. For each the
                                                   transports    temperature,
                                                                      mass of the    masslost
                                                                                 water     diffusivity
                                                                                               by thevaried, producing
                                                                                                       material.    This is clearly
             different drying kinetics, and which the average moisture content values of the brick were compared
observablewith by experimental
                    the hue in the data.
                                        mass field, especially in the left side region of the brick.




             Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                       12 of 19
             Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                       12 of 19
                    Figure 8. Water mass distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 0 min).
                  8. Water
           Figure Figure     massmass
                         8. Water distribution
                                      distributioninside   theoven
                                                   inside the   oven  (Plane
                                                                   (Plane      XZ)
                                                                          XZ) for   for drying
                                                                                  drying              0 ◦
                                                                                                  at= 90
                                                                                         at 90 °C (t      C (t = 0 min).
                                                                                                       min).

             Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                         www.mdpi.com/journal/energies




                     Water9.mass distribution    inside  the                                              ◦ C (t = 10 min).
           Figure 9. Figure Water mass distribution inside theoven   (Plane
                                                               oven (Plane  XZ)
                                                                           XZ) for for drying
                                                                                   drying at     at (t90= 10
                                                                                             90 °C           min).
                      Figure 9. Water mass distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 10 min).




          Figure 10. Water mass distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 ◦ C (t = 60 min).
                      Figure 10. Water mass distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 60 min).
                      Figure 10. Water mass distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 60 min).
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                      12 of 18
Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                         13 of 19




         Figure 11. Water mass distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 ◦ C (t = 690 min).
         Figure 11. Water mass distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 690 min).
     Due to the position of the brick inside the oven, air accumulates in the hollow region of the brick.
This Taking
      justifiesthe
                thebest
                    factmass
                         that diffusivities
                               these regionsvalues
                                              are more    difficult
                                                     inside         to dehumidify,
                                                            the brick                   and also
                                                                        (Table 2) for each       to heatcondition
                                                                                             drying-air  up. It is
also possible
obtained   and to  observe,
                applying   thenear the brick
                                Arrhenius     surface, a
                                           equation       region (14)),
                                                       (Equation   with aa high
                                                                             linearwater–mass   gradient
                                                                                    regression was        and the
                                                                                                    performed.
concentration boundary layer. The results prove that there is a symmetry between the upper and lower
part of the XZ plane.       Table 2. Mass diffusivities obtained with the simulations.
     To reach the values of the best mass diffusivity of the brick, several numerical simulations were
                                       Temperature [°C] Dms [m²/s]
made, in each drying air conditions. For each temperature, the mass diffusivity varied, producing
                                                50               1 × 10−7
different drying kinetics, and which the average moisture content values of the brick were compared
                                                60               3 × 10−7
with experimental data.
     Taking the best mass diffusivities values  70 inside the brick
                                                                 9 × 10(Table
                                                                         −7
                                                                                 2) for each drying-air condition
                                                80              24  × 10  −7
obtained and applying the Arrhenius equation (Equation (14)), a linear regression was performed.
                                                90              65 × 10−7
                                                100 obtained155
                            Table 2. Mass diffusivities          with× 10
                                                                       the−7simulations.

                   Temperature
     Figure 12 shows
                                   ◦
                                 [ C]
                         the Neperian   logarithm of the mass diffusivity Dfor
                                                                            ms [m
                                                                               each /s]air predicted by the
                                                                                        2


simulations and Equation                                                      × 10a−7linear behavior of this
                           50 (16). From the analysis of this figure, we can1see
variable, and an excellent 60 concordance between the results, with the 3coefficient
                                                                              × 10−7       of determination
equal to 0.998.            70                                               9 × 10−7
     After fitting, the following values were obtained: D0 = 2.577 × 10−9 m²/s and −7
                                                                                       Ea = 101562.96 J/mol.
                            80                                                   24 × 10
                            90                                                   65 × 10−7
                           100                                                  155 × 10−7


      Figure 12 shows the Neperian logarithm of the mass diffusivity for each air predicted by the
simulations and Equation (16). From the analysis of this figure, we can see a linear behavior of this
variable, and an excellent concordance between the results, with the coefficient of determination equal
to 0.998.
      After fitting, the following values were obtained: D0 = 2.577 × 10−9 m2 /s and Ea = 101562.96 J/mol.
      The water mass gradient on the three cartesian axes (∂mX /∂X, ∂mY /∂Y e ∂mZ /∂Z) was provided for
each time step in the numerical simulation, as well as the overall surface average (∂m/∂). Equation (11)
is solved to obtain the convective mass transfer coefficient for each time and for each cartesian axis.
From an arithmetic mean, the values of the convective mass transfer coefficient were calculated, as
shown in Table 3.


Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                          www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
       Figure 12 shows the Neperian logarithm of the mass diffusivity for each air predicted by the
simulations and Equation (16). From the analysis of this figure, we can see a linear behavior of this
variable, and an excellent concordance between the results, with the coefficient of determination
equal to 0.998.
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                            13 of 18
       After fitting, the following values were obtained: D0 = 2.577 × 10−9 m²/s and Ea = 101562.96 J/mol.
 Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                     14 of 19


                          Figure 12. Mass diffusivity in brick according to Arrhenius Law.

       The water mass gradient on the three cartesian axes (∂mX/∂X, ∂mY/∂Y e ∂mZ/∂Z) was provided
 for each time step in the numerical simulation, as well as the overall surface average (∂m/∂). Equation
 (11) is solved to obtain the convective mass transfer coefficient for each time and for each cartesian
 axis. From an arithmetic mean, the values of the convective mass transfer coefficient were calculated,
 as shown in Table 3.


                    Table 3. Convective mass transfer coefficients obtained with the simulations.

                    Drying Temperature hm,X [m/s] hm,Y [m/s] hm,Z [m/s] hm [m/s]
                              50 °C              6.87 × 10−5 5.95 × 10−7 1.82 × 10−6 8.38 × 10−4
                              60 °C              4.50 × 10−5 4.22 × 10−7 4.56 × 10−7 4.78 × 10−4
                              70 °C              4.78 × 10−5 4.87 × 10−7 1.08 × 10−7 4.83 × 10−4
                            Figure 12. Mass diffusivity in −5
                                                           brick according   to Arrhenius Law.
                              80 °C              5.10 × 10      5.46 × 10−7 1.11 × 10−7 5.07 × 10−4
Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                                www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
                    Table 3. 90 °C
                              Convective mass 5.41    × 10
                                                transfer   −5   6.00 × 10
                                                         coefficients     −7
                                                                      obtained  2.33
                                                                                with×the
                                                                                      10simulations.
                                                                                         −7 5.31 × 10−4
                              100 °C             5.89 × 10−5 6.65 × 10−7 2.86 × 10−7 5.71 × 10−4
      Drying
                             |hm,X | [m/s]            |hm,Y | [m/s]            |hm,Z | [m/s]                |hm | [m/s]
    Temperature
 3.2. Transient
          ◦
                Analysis of Heat Transfer
                                   −5
         50 C                 6.87 × 10               5.95 × 10−7              1.82 × 10−6              8.38 × 10−4
        The
          60 ◦temporal
                C        evolution     of the surface 4.22
                                4.50 × 10−5
                                                        temperature
                                                             × 10−7
                                                                        of the brick   (vertex) is shown
                                                                                4.56 × 10−7
                                                                                                            in Figure 13,
                                                                                                        4.78 × 10−4
 with the ◦temperature measured−5in the point highlighted                by  Figure   2b. The   same   credibility  of the
          70 C                  4.78 × 10               4.87 × 10−7             1.08 × 10−7             4.83 × 10−4
 model is observed in the material heating curves, where the numerical data are in reasonable
          80 ◦ C with the experimental
 concordance                    5.10 × 10−5 data. 5.46 × 10−7                   1.11 × 10−7             5.07 × 10−4
           is ◦ C
        It90  observed that the           −5
                                   numerical
                                5.41 × 10       curve 6.00   × 10−7
                                                       presents   values below2.33the× 10−7
                                                                                      experimental ones     for10−4
                                                                                                        5.31 ×  instances
 of time     below 600 min,5.89
         100 ◦ C                 after  the
                                     × 10 −5 curve is 6.65
                                                       inverted,
                                                             × 10−7and the 2.86
                                                                             numerical
                                                                                     × 10−7values are 5.71
                                                                                                        higher   than the
                                                                                                             × 10−4
 experimental data. This behavior is common for all temperatures, and this phenomenon may be
 explained
3.2.  Transientby the  factofthat
                  Analysis        constant
                               Heat  Transferthermophysical properties have been adopted in the solid domain
 and due to the energy required to evaporate the product water, was considered negligible in the
       The temporal
 mathematical          evolution
                     model.   Thus,ofthe
                                       theheat
                                           surface  temperature
                                                transferred        of solid
                                                              to the  the brick  (vertex) is shown
                                                                            by convection            in Figure only
                                                                                              is transformed    13, with
                                                                                                                      into
the  temperature     measured     in the  point  highlighted   by  Figure  2b. The   same  credibility  of
 sensitive heat for the heating of the brick, whereas in practice, the heat is transformed into sensitive  the  model  is
observed     in  the material  heating   curves,  where   the numerical    data are  in reasonable
 heat for the heating of the clay mass and the moisture of the brick and heat latent for moisture    concordance    with
the  experimental data.
 vaporization.




                    Figure13.
                   Figure  13.Temperature
                               Temperatureofofthe
                                                thebrick
                                                    bricksurface
                                                          surfaceasasa afunction
                                                                          functionofofthe
                                                                                        thedrying
                                                                                            dryingtime.
                                                                                                    time.


 Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                                www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                                           14 of 18



      It is observed that the numerical curve presents values below the experimental ones for instances
of time below 600 min, after the curve is inverted, and the numerical values are higher than the
experimental data. This behavior is common for all temperatures, and this phenomenon may be
explained by the fact that constant thermophysical properties have been adopted in the solid domain
and due to the energy required to evaporate the product water, was considered negligible in the
mathematical model. Thus, the heat transferred to the solid by convection is transformed only into
sensitive heat for the heating of the brick, whereas in practice, the heat is transformed into sensitive heat
for the heating of the clay mass and the moisture of the brick and heat latent for moisture vaporization.
      It is worth mentioning that in order to carry out the experimental measurements, it was necessary
to remove  Energies
               the2020,   13, x FOR
                      brick     fromPEER  REVIEW the oven to perform the measurements, causing 15
                                        inside                                                                            of 19external air
                                                                                                                         the
that is colderItand        morementioning
                     is worth      humid tothat  interfere
                                                     in orderwith      the measured
                                                                 to carry                  data. This
                                                                             out the experimental        experimental
                                                                                                      measurements,         measurement
                                                                                                                       it was
methodologynecessarycauses     inaccuracies
                         to remove     the brickinfrom
                                                    the inside
                                                          experimental
                                                                  the oven to results,
                                                                                 perform being
                                                                                            the one of    the causes
                                                                                                 measurements,         of the
                                                                                                                 causing   the mentioned
           external air
discrepancy.               that is colder
                  Furthermore,          theand more
                                             measurementhumid tof the
                                                                    interfere with   the measured
                                                                           temperature       has beendata.done
                                                                                                           This in the
                                                                                                                experimental
                                                                                                                         vertex region of
           measurement methodology causes inaccuracies in the experimental results, being one of the causes
the brick, and it is subjected to experimental errors easily.
           of the mentioned discrepancy. Furthermore, the measurement of the temperature has been done in
      For the
           an vertex
               appropriate
                         region ofthermal
                                     the brick,analysis,    the temperature
                                                and it is subjected                 fields
                                                                      to experimental       on easily.
                                                                                         errors the brick surface are represented in
Figure 14. AFor   small     temperature
                       an appropriate          variation
                                         thermal  analysis, is
                                                             theperceived
                                                                  temperaturein     thison the
                                                                                 fields   region,
                                                                                                brickwhich    can reduce
                                                                                                     surface are represented the effects of
non-uniformin Figure    14. A small
                    drying      and, temperature
                                       consequently, variation  is
                                                           failuresperceived
                                                                        in  thein this
                                                                                materialregion, which can
                                                                                              in the  firingreduce the The
                                                                                                              stage.   effects
                                                                                                                             results show
           of non-uniform drying and, consequently, failures in the material in the firing stage. The results show
that the greatest       temperature variation always occurs in the first hour of the process.
           that the greatest temperature variation always occurs in the first hour of the process.




                                  (a) 10 minutes                                         (b) 60 minutes




                                                             (c) 690 minutes

      Figure 14. Figure 14. Temperature
                  Temperature           distribution
                                  distribution     onon the
                                                        the brick
                                                             bricksurface for drying
                                                                      surface    for atdrying
                                                                                        90 °C, with 90 ◦ C, with different
                                                                                                at different
                                                durations—(a), (b), and (c).
      durations—(a–c).
                 The vertices on the right side of the brick reach high temperatures more quickly comparing to
    Theother
        vertices  onshowing
             regions,  the rightthatside   of the
                                     it is not     brick reach
                                               appropriate         high
                                                           to assume      temperatures
                                                                       a constant          more
                                                                                  temperature      quickly
                                                                                               on the  surfacecomparing
                                                                                                               of         to
other the
     regions,  showing
          solid. Due  to thethat
                             air it
                                flowis not   appropriate
                                      direction (from        toleft,
                                                      right to  assume     a constant
                                                                     perpendicular       temperature
                                                                                   to the ZY plane), the on   the surface of
                                                                                                         internal
           part of the brick remains colder than the others region of the brick during the entire drying process.

           Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                        www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                                      15 of 18
      Energies 2020, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                             16 of 19

the solid.
     This Due    to the air
           asymmetric          flowshows
                         heating     direction    (from
                                            that the      right of
                                                       position   tothe
                                                                     left,material
                                                                            perpendicular
                                                                                     inside thetooventhe ZY    plane),
                                                                                                           directly      the the
                                                                                                                     affects  internal
part of the  brick gradient
     temperature    remainsin thecolder  than the others region of the brick during the entire drying process.
                                      brick.
          Therefore,heating
This asymmetric        it is expected
                                 showsthatthata the
                                                 change   in theof
                                                      position     position   of the brick
                                                                     the material       inside inside   the oven
                                                                                                  the oven          completely
                                                                                                                directly   affects the
     changes  the  behavior    of
temperature gradient in the brick.the temperature      on the  surface  of  the  solid.  It is important     to note  that high
     temperature
     Therefore, itgradients,
                     is expected caused  by auncontrolled
                                      that     change in drying,       can cause
                                                              the position          various
                                                                                of the    bricktypes   of defects
                                                                                                  inside           in thecompletely
                                                                                                            the oven      brick,
     such as cracks, deformations, fissures, among others. These types of problems can occur when using,
changes the behavior of the temperature on the surface of the solid. It is important to note that high
     for example, drying air conditions, a high temperature and velocity, and low relative humidity of the
temperature gradients, caused by uncontrolled drying, can cause various types of defects in the brick,
     drying air. Obviously, defects arising from the forming process are not being taken into account.
such as cracks,
          Figuresdeformations,
                   15–17 illustratefissures,      amongofothers.
                                      the distribution                These types
                                                             air temperature     insideoftheproblems
                                                                                               oven (Plane canXZ)
                                                                                                                occur    when using,
                                                                                                                    at different
for example,
     drying times and conditions. From the analysis of these figures, we can see that the heat transfer byof the
               drying    air  conditions,    a high    temperature      and   velocity,     and   low    relative  humidity
drying  air. Obviously,
     a spontaneous          defects
                       process        arising
                                  occurs   fromfrom     the forming
                                                   the high   temperatureprocess
                                                                               (air)are
                                                                                      to not
                                                                                          the being
                                                                                                lower taken      into account.
                                                                                                         temperature     (brick)
     Figures 15–17
     regions. Duringillustrate
                         drying, thethehot air
                                         distribution
                                                  supplyofheats
                                                             air the
                                                                  temperature
                                                                        brick and, inside
                                                                                       as it the   oven
                                                                                              passes       (Plane
                                                                                                        over   the XZ)    at it
                                                                                                                    material,different
     undergoes
drying  times and a slight   decrease
                     conditions.        in its
                                     From       temperature,
                                             the analysis        especially
                                                              of these         near we
                                                                          figures,    thecanbrickseesurface
                                                                                                      that theand   within
                                                                                                                 heat        the by a
                                                                                                                        transfer
     thermal boundary
spontaneous    process layer.      Furthermore,
                           occurs from     the high  as the air flows from
                                                        temperature            right
                                                                         (air) to  theto left
                                                                                         lower  of the   brick, there is
                                                                                                   temperature            also a
                                                                                                                     (brick)  regions.
     symmetry   between     the  upper  and   lower   part of  the  material  in  the  XZ   Plane.
During drying, the hot air supply heats the brick and, as it passes over the material, it undergoes a
          The greatest temperature variation occurs in the initial drying times, where the brick is at a low
slight decrease in its temperature, especially near the brick surface and within the thermal boundary
     temperature and at any temperature of the drying air. It was observed that the largest temperature
layer. Furthermore, as the air flows from right to left of the brick, there is also a symmetry between the
     gradients occur, precisely in the vicinity of the brick surface, corresponding to the thermal boundary
upper  and lower part of the material in the XZ Plane.
     layer.




       Figure2020,  Air
               15. 13,   temperature  distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90             ◦ C (t = 10 min).
      Energies         x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                               17 of 19
             Figure 15. Air temperature distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 10 min).




      Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                              www.mdpi.com/journal/energies

       Figure 16. Air temperature distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 ◦ C (t = 60 min).
             Figure 16. Air temperature distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 60 min).
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                       16 of 18
       Figure 16. Air temperature distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 60 min).




      Figure 17. Air temperature distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 ◦ C (t = 690 min).
      Figure 17. Air temperature distribution inside the oven (Plane XZ) for drying at 90 °C (t = 690 min).
    The greatest temperature variation occurs in the initial drying times, where the brick is at
    Fortemperature
a low    each instantandof time,
                           at anythe  results of the
                                   temperature         numerical
                                                  of the   drying simulation
                                                                    air. It wasprovide
                                                                                  observed thethat
                                                                                                values of the
                                                                                                   the largest
convective
temperature heat transfer
             gradients    coefficients.
                        occur,          Performing
                               precisely in the      an of the
                                                vicinity arithmetic
                                                                brickmean   of the results,
                                                                      surface,              the to
                                                                                corresponding   values
                                                                                                   the of this
                                                                                                      thermal
parameter  for
boundary layer.each drying   temperature   are reported   in Table 4.
     For each instant of time, the results of the numerical simulation provide the values of the convective
                 Table 4. Convective heat transfer coefficient obtained with the simulations.
heat transfer coefficients. Performing an arithmetic mean of the results, the values of this parameter
for each drying temperature are reported
                                    Temperaturein Table
                                                    [°C]4. hc [W/(m².K)]
                                             50                 0.9655
                 Table 4. Convective heat transfer coefficient obtained with the simulations.
                                             60                 1.0700
                  Temperature [◦ C]          70                 1.1603      hc [W/(m2 ·K)]
                           50
                                             80                 1.2486           0.9655
                                             90                 1.2887
                           60                                                    1.0700
                                            100                 1.3931
                            70                                                    1.1603
4. Conclusions              80                                                    1.2486
                            90                                                    1.2887
Energies 2020, 12, x; doi: FOR PEER REVIEW                                         www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
                            100                                                   1.3931


4. Conclusions
    According to the numerical results obtained for drying hollow ceramic bricks, it can be
concluded that:

(a)   The proposed mathematical modeling was adequate, providing numerical results of the
      temperature at the vertex and water mass of the bricks along the drying process with a good
      agreement with the experimental data;
(b)   The higher the drying air temperature, the faster the heating and drying rates are;
(c)   The temperature and moisture content distribution on the brick surface have shown a strong
      dependence with the direction of air flow inside the oven and drying conditions;
(d)   There were variations in both moisture content and temperature on the brick surface and
      temperature and absolute humidity, showing that a convective boundary condition is more
      appropriate for describing this process;
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                      17 of 18



(e)   The heat and mass transfer coefficients by convection and the mass diffusion coefficient increased
      with increasing drying air temperature;
(f)   The rise in mass diffusivity with the drying-air temperature is in accordance with the Arrhenius law.


Author Contributions: Conceptualization, M.d.V.A.; methodology, M.d.V.A.; R.S.S. and A.G.B.d.L.; software,
M.d.V.A.; validation, M.d.V.A. and A.G.B.d.L.; formal analysis, M.d.V.A. and A.G.B.d.L.; investigation, M.d.V.A.;
resources, M.d.V.A. and A.G.B.d.L.; data curation, M.d.V.A. and A.G.B.d.L.; writing—original draft preparation,
M.d.V.A.; B.R.d.B.C. and A.G.B.d.L.; writing—review and editing, M.d.V.A. and A.G.B.d.L.; visualization, M.d.V.A.;
B.R.d.B.C.; R.S.S.; supervision, M.d.V.A. and A.G.B.d.L.; project administration, M.d.V.A.; V.A.A.B.; funding
acquisition, M.d.V.A.; B.R.d.B.C.; V.A.A.B.; I.R.d.O.; R.S.S.; G.L.d.O.N.; L.P.d.L.S. and A.G.B.d.L. All authors have
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by CNPQ, CAPES and FINEP.
Acknowledgments: The authors thank CNPQ, CAPES and FINEP (Brazilian Research Agencies) for financial
support and the researchers cited in the text that helped in the improvement.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References
1.    Foust, A.S.; Wenzel, L.A.; Clump, C.W.; Maus, L.; Andersen, L.B. Principles of Unit Operations. Rio Jan.
      Guanabara Dois S. A 2015, 1.
2.    Batista, V.R.; Nascimento, J.J.S.; Lima, A.G.B. Drying and burning of massive and cast ceramic bricks
      including dimensional variations and structural damage. Rev. Eletrônica Mater. Process. 2008, 3, 46–61.
      (In Portuguese)
3.    Batista, V.R.; Nascimento, J.J.S.; Lima, A.G.B. Drying and volumetric retraction of solid and hollow ceramic
      bricks: A theoretical and experimental investigation. Matéria 2009, 14, 1088–1100. (In Portuguese)
4.    Cadé, M.A.; Nascimento, J.J.S.; Lima, A.G.B. Drying of Holed Ceramic Bricks: An Approach by Finite-Volumes.
      Matéria 2005, 10, 443–453. (In Portuguese)
5.    Nascimento, J.J.S.; Lima, A.G.B. Experimental Drying of Ceramics Bricks Including Shrinkage. Defect Diffus.
      Forum 2015, 365, 106–111. [CrossRef]
6.    Silva, J.B.; Almeida, G.S.; Lima, W.C.P.B.; Neves, G.A.; Lima, A.G.B. Heat and Mass Transfer and Volume
      Variations during Drying of Industrial Ceramic Bricks: An Experimental Investigation. Defect Diffus. Forum
      2012, 326, 267–272. [CrossRef]
7.    Lopez, E.M.; Cortes, L.L. Moisture transfer analysis during drying of brick by temperature and relative
      humidity profiles. Eur. Sci. J. 2012, 9, 109–122.
8.    Pel, L.; Ketelaars, A.A.J.; Adan, O.C.G.; Van Well, A.A. Determination of moisture diffusivity in porous
      media using scanning neutron radiography. Int. J. Heat Mass Transf. 1993, 36, 1261–1267. [CrossRef]
9.    Gualtieri, A.F.; Ricchi, A.; Gualtieri, M.L.; Maretti, S.; Tamburini, M. Kinetic study of the drying process of
      clay bricks. J. Therm. Anal. Calorim. 2016, 123, 153–167. [CrossRef]
10.   Brooker, D.B.; Bakker-Arkema, F.W.; Hall, C.W. Drying and Storage of Grains and Oilseeds; AVI Book: New
      York, NY, USA, 1992; 450p.
11.   Fortes, M.; Okos, M.R. Advances in Drying; Hemisphere Publishing Corporation: Washington, WA, USA,
      1980; Volume 1, pp. 119–154.
12.   Strumillo, C.; Kudra, T. Drying: Principles, Science and Design; Gordon and Breach Science Publishers:
      New York, NY, USA, 1986; 448p.
13.   Augier, F.; Coumans, W.J.; Hugget, A.; Kaasschieter, E.F. On the risk of cracking in clay drying. Chem. Eng. J.
      2002, 86, 133–138. [CrossRef]
14.   Van der Zanden, A.J.J.; Schoenmakers, A.M.E.; Kerkhof, P.J.A.M. Isothermal vapour and liquid transport
      inside clay during drying. Dry. Technol. 1996, 14, 647–676. [CrossRef]
15.   Silva, W.P.; Farias, V.S.O.; Neves, G.A.; Lima, A.G.B. Modeling of water transport in roof tiles by removal of
      moisture at isothermal conditions. Heat Mass Transf. 2012, 48, 809–821. [CrossRef]
16.   Tomas, S.; Skansi, D.; Sokele, M. Convection drying of porous material. Ceram. Int. 1994, 20, 9–16. [CrossRef]
17.   Van der Zanden, A.J.J.; de Wit, M.H. A procedure to measure the diffusion coefficient of water in brick as a
      function of the water concentration. Dry. Technol. Int. J. 2012, 30, 526–534. [CrossRef]
Energies 2020, 13, 2073                                                                                            18 of 18



18.   Telljohann, U.; Junge, K.; Specht, E. Moisture diffusion coefficients for modeling the first and second drying
      sections of green bricks. Dry. Technol. 2008, 26, 855–863. [CrossRef]
19.   Araújo, M.V.; Santos, R.S.; Silva, R.M.E.; Lima, A.G.B. Drying of Industrial Hollow Ceramic Brick: Analysis
      of the Moisture Content and Temperature Parameters. Defect Diffus. Forum 2017, 380, 72–78. [CrossRef]
20.   Araújo, M.V.; Delgado, J.M.P.Q.; Barbosa de Lima, A.G. On the Use of CFD in Thermal Analysis of Industrial
      Hollow Ceramic Brick. Diffus. Found. 2017, 10, 70–82. [CrossRef]
21.   Araújo, M.V.; Santos, R.S.; Silva, R.M.; Nascimento, J.B.S.; Santos, W.R.G.; Lima, A.G.B. Drying of Industrial
      Hollow Ceramic Brick: A Numerical Analysis Using CFD. Defect Diffus. Forum 2019, 391, 48–53. [CrossRef]
22.   Araújo, M.V.; Pereira, A.S.; Oliveira, J.L.; Brandão, V.A.A.; Brasileiro Filho, F.; De, A.; Silva, R.M.; Lima, A.G.B.
      Industrial Ceramic Brick Drying in Oven by CFD. Materials 2019, 12, 1612. [CrossRef]
23.   Silva, J.B. Simulation and Experimentation of Drying Ceramic Bricks. Ph.D. Thesis, Federal University of
      Campina Grande, Campina Grande, Brazil, 2009; 173p. (In Portuguese).
24.   Inc Ansys. NSYS CFX-Solver Theory Guide; Inc Ansys: Canonsburg, PA, USA, 2013; 356p.
25.   Araújo, M.V. Numerical Study of the Water and Oil Biphasic Flow in T-Connections in the Presence of Leak.
      Master’s Thesis, dissertation in Chemical Engineering, Federal University of Campina Grande, Campina
      Grande, Brazil, 2014; 87p. (In Portuguese).
26.   Almeida, G.S. Simulation and Experimentation of Red Ceramic Drying in Industrial Thermal Systems.
      Ph.D. Thesis, Federal University of Campina Grande, Campina Grande, Brazil, 2009; 189p. (In Portuguese).
27.   Çengel, Y.A.E.; Ghajar, A.J. Heat and Mass Transfer: Fundamentals & Applications; AMGH: Porto Alegre, Brazil,
      2012. (In Portuguese)
28.   Corrêa, P.C.; Resende, O.; Goneli, A.L.D.; Botelho, F.M.; Nogueira, B.L. Determination of the liquid diffusion
      coefficient of beans. Braz. J. Agro Ind. Prod. 2006, 8, 117–126. (In Portuguese)
29.   Silva, J.B.; Almeida, G.S.; Lima, W.C.P.B.; Neves, G.A.; Lima, A.G.B. Heat and mass diffusion including
      shrinkage and hygrothermal stress during drying of holed ceramics bricks. Defect Diffus. Forum 2011, 312,
      971–976. [CrossRef]
30.   Silva, W.P.; Silva, C.M.D.P.S.; Silva, L.D.; Farias, V.S.O. Drying of clay slabs: Experimental determination and
      prediction by two-dimensional diffusion models. Ceram. Int. 2013, 39, 7911–7919. [CrossRef]
31.   Shokouhmand, H.; Abdollahi, V.; Hosseini, S.; Vahidkhah, K. Performance optimization of a brick dryer
      using porous simulation approach. Dry. Technol. Int. J. 2011, 29, 360–370. [CrossRef]

                          © 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
                          article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
                          (CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
