              energies
Article
Pyrolysis of Municipal Sewage Sludge to Investigate Char and
Phosphorous Yield together with Heavy-Metal
Removal—Experimental and by Thermodynamic Calculations
Naeimeh Vali *, Lars-Erik Åmand, Aurélie Combres, Tobias Richards                                and Anita Pettersson

                                          Swedish Centre for Resource Recovery, University of Borås, 501 90 Borås, Sweden;
                                          lars-erik.amand@hb.se (L.-E.Å.); aurelie.combres@gmail.com (A.C.); tobias.richards@hb.se (T.R.);
                                          anita.pettersson@hb.se (A.P.)
                                          * Correspondence: naeimeh.vali@hb.se; Tel.: +46-73-939-1375


                                          Abstract: Sewage sludge is regarded as a potential source for soil fertilizer However, the direct
                                          utilization of sewage sludge in agricultural land is restricted since it also contains heavy metals,
                                          pathogens, and toxic compounds. Pyrolysis of the sewage sludge destroys the organic pollutants
                                          and partly volatilizes the heavy metals. In this study, pyrolysis of sewage sludge was carried out
                                          in order to determine the optimum residence time and temperature to recover the phosphorous
                                          and remove heavy metals from the resultant sewage sludge char (SSC). Pyrolysis was conducted on
                                          dried sewage sludge (DSS) by means of thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and high-temperature
                                oven with an N2 -atmosphere. Microwave Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (MP-AES) was
         
                                          used to determine the concentration of P and trace elements in the resulting solid char fraction.
Citation: Vali, N.; Åmand, L.-E.;
                                          A combination of chemical fractionation (step-by-step leaching) of the DSS and thermodynamic
Combres, A.; Richards, T.; Pettersson,
                                          equilibrium calculations were utilized to estimate the availability of phosphorous and removal of
A. Pyrolysis of Municipal Sewage
                                          heavy metals in the SSC fraction at different temperatures. The results from the thermodynamics
Sludge to Investigate Char and
Phosphorous Yield together with
                                          calculation were in line with the measured chemical composition of the SSC. Furthermore, the energy
Heavy-Metal Removal—                      contents of the SSC obtained at different temperatures were measured. The pyrolysis evaluation
Experimental and by                       results indicate that phosphorous was enriched in the char, while lead, zinc, and cadmium were
Thermodynamic Calculations.               significantly removed.
Energies 2021, 14, 1477. https://
doi.org/10.3390/en14051477                Keywords: sewage sludge; pyrolysis; thermodynamic equilibrium modeling; phosphorus recovery;
                                          chemical fractionation
Academic Editor: Fiseha Tesfaye


Received: 5 February 2021
Accepted: 2 March 2021                    1. Introduction
Published: 8 March 2021
                                                Phosphorus (P) is a crucial element for all existing organisms and performs vital
                                          functions for nourishment, growth, and plant development. It is one of the fundamental
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
                                          parts of fertilizers and an essential element in all organic life. The shortage of P in the soil
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
                                          severely affects the plant metabolism and, in turn, their productions. However, according
published maps and institutional affil-
                                          to scientific reports [1], the demand for P has increased considerably. Moreover, today,
iations.
                                          most of the P is obtained from phosphate rock (PR), which is non-renewable and limited [2].
                                          Municipal sewage sludge (MSS), which is the main byproduct of wastewater treatment
                                          plants (WWTPs), has been generated in large quantities over the past few decades [3].
                                          Increasing attention has been paid to the safe handling and application of this material.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
                                          Landfilling, agricultural utilization, and incineration are the main alternatives of MSS
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
                                          utilizations. Considering that MSS contains high concentrations of phosphates, which are
This article is an open access article
                                          at the same levels as apatite minerals, it is regarded as a potential secondary source of
distributed under the terms and
                                          phosphorous. Besides the P content, wastewater sludge is also enriched in nitrogen as
conditions of the Creative Commons
                                          well as macro and micronutrients. Therefore, the most intense application of MSS is the
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
                                          land applications and agricultural usages in view of its fertilizer capacity. However, MMS
4.0/).
                                          is highly contaminated with phytotoxic heavy metals such as chromium (Cr), cadmium




Energies 2021, 14, 1477. https://doi.org/10.3390/en14051477                                                  https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                            2 of 18




                          (Cd), copper (Cu), nickel (Ni), cobalt (Co), and zinc (Zn) as well as pathogens and toxic
                          organic substances such as polyaromatic hydrocarbons, chlorobenzene, and plasticizers and
                          cannot be directly applied in farmland in food production, according to the EU-legislation
                          directives (EU) 2019/1009 [3,4]. Furthermore, MSS has been known as a severe pollutant
                          for the environment, releasing toxins such as N2 O into the air and contaminating soil and
                          water reserves. Hence, there are significant concerns related to MSS management with
                          an appropriate and sustainable treatment [5]. Thermochemical conversion (combustion,
                          gasification, hydrothermal carbonatization, and pyrolysis) of MSS has become promising
                          in recent years. It can be attributed to their effectiveness in reducing waste volume,
                          decomposition of organic contaminants, energy recovery, and may enable a significant
                          separation of heavy metals from the remaining ashes or char [6,7]. However, the choice of
                          thermal treatment method plays a significant role in the P recovery and the concentration
                          of heavy metals remaining in the solid residues, since chemical and physical properties of
                          P speciation vary between different thermal processes. For instance, in combustion, the
                          bioavailability of the recovered P is under debate [8]. Therefore, an optimized thermal
                          process is needed to manage a potential method of sewage sludge. Pyrolysis treatment
                          has shown advantages over other thermal processes due to the low cost of the equipment;
                          thus, it can be widely utilized in the disposal of sewage sludge. Pyrolysis is carried out at a
                          temperature below 1000 ◦ C and in the absence of oxygen, which enriches the phosphorous
                          in the sludge char. Moreover, studies [9–11] have shown that the char obtained from thermal
                          processing under reducing atmosphere (meaning low concentration or total absence of
                          oxygen) has higher bioavailability due to phosphate conversion to other compounds.
                          Therefore, char from pyrolysis has a better potential for land applications compared to the
                          ashes from combustion. Thanks to the operational condition of pyrolysis, the gas velocity,
                          and the size of the solid fragments, only a small amount of fly ash is produced during
                          the process, which can be advantageous compared to other thermal treatments. One of
                          the problems with some combustion processes is the handling of large amounts of fly ash
                          containing both P and heavy metal compounds. Therefore, contrary to the MSS combustion
                          process, most of the phosphorous will remain in the resultant char after the pyrolysis
                          process. Another characteristic of the pyrolysis process is the sanitization of the sludge’s
                          pathogens, the destruction of toxic compounds, and the volatilization of trace elements to
                          convert the sludge into high-valued carbonaceous products (SSC). Studies on the municipal
                          solid sludge pyrolysis have indicated that arsenic (As) removal can be enhanced with an
                          increased temperature around 500 ◦ C [12,13]. Moreover, the volatilization behavior of
                          both Pb and Cd is increased between 400 ◦ C and 1000 ◦ C [12,14]. Similarly, the prolonged
                          residence time will boost the trace elements’ emission. On the other hand, an increased
                          heating rate has a preventive effect on the release of trace elements in the vapor phases. The
                          effectiveness of char, for example, availability of the phosphorous for plants, is basically
                          dependent on the composition of the sewage sludge, characteristics, and the physical
                          properties of SSC, as well as reaction condition; moreover, it is mostly affected by the
                          pyrolysis temperature. In this regard, there have been extensive studies on phosphorous
                          recovery and emission behavior of heavy metals from obtained ashes during combustion
                          of MSS in fluidized bed combustors in the presence of oxygen at high temperature [15–17].
                          However, to the best of our knowledge, only a few publications [16,18] can be found on the
                          effect of heating rate and reaction temperature on phosphorous recovery in the absence of
                          oxygen. Therefore, further efforts are needed to obtain more extensive knowledge regarding
                          the crucial factors affecting sewage sludge pyrolysis such as reaction and residence time,
                          reaction temperature, and heating rate.
                               The objective of this study is to determine the effects of pyrolysis reaction parameters
                          such as heating rate, process temperature, and residence time on the removal of heavy
                          metals from the sewage sludge collected from the Mora wastewater treatment plant. The
                          focus of this study is on the char, meant for soil improvement, and the change in the
                          element concentrations at different end temperatures of pyrolysis, with special attention
                          paid to heavy metals and total remaining phosphorus.
Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                       3 of 18




                                   2. Materials and Methods
                                   2.1. Fuel Samples Analysis
                                        Dried, undigested, municipal sewage sludge (DSS), with a moisture content of 10.6%,
                                   was collected from Solviken Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant (MWWTP) in Mora,
                                   Sweden. The initial properties of the sludge used are found in Table 1. About 10 kg of
                                   sewage sludge was dried at 105 ◦ C for 48 h before it was used in the experiment. The
                                   DSS was analyzed by Eurofins (more details can be found in [7]). The properties and the
                                   ultimate, ash, and trace elements measurements are listed in Table 1.

                                               Table 1. Sewage sludge characteristics.

    City of Wastewater Treatment Plant            Phosphorus Precipitation Treatment                    Dry Matter 3
                                               P is Chemically Precipitated with Kemiras
                 Mora-Sweden                                                                             89.4 wt.%
                                               PAX 215, Which is An Aluminum Polymer.
              Proximate Analysis                  Ash Analysis               (g/kg DSS 2 )    Trace Elements    (mg/kg DSS 2 )
     Moisture 1,2               10.6                   Al                          33              As                  1.11
       Ash 1,3                  21.1                   Ca                          8.9             Cd                  0.39
     Volatiles 1,3              70.7                   Fe                          3.8             Co                   1.3
   Fixed carbon 1,3              8.2                   K                           1.6             Cr                   29
            Ultimate analysis 1,2                      Mg                         0.93             Cu                  130
          C                      55                    Na                         0.54             Hg                   22
          H                      8.0                   P                           15              Mn                   93
          O                      31                    Si                          17              Ni                   8.1
          N                      4.4                   Ti                         0.39             Pb                  9.3
          S                      0.7                   Cl                         0.47             Zn                  310
                                                      1 Wt.%; 2 as received; 3 dry.



                                        Since the particle size of the dried sewage sludge (DSS) was above 2 cm in diameter,
                                   all material was crushed and blended before the pyrolysis process.

                                   2.2. Pyrolysis Experiments and Kinetic Reaction Analysis
                                        The pyrolysis process was conducted both in a thermogravimetric analyzer (Mettler
                                   Toledo TGA/DSC 3+, Greifensee, Schweiz) and in a high-temperature laboratory-scale oven
                                   (Nabertherm P330). The thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) experiment was conducted to
                                   evaluate the kinetics of the pyrolysis reaction by the activation energy. Five temperature
                                   programs with different heating rates 2, 5, 10, 15, and 20 ◦ C/min were used. For each
                                   experiment, 3.7 mg of a sample was heated from ambient temperature to 850 ◦ C in N2
                                   atmosphere, after which the N2 was changed to air for 30 min. For each sample, every
                                   TGA curve obtained after measurement was evaluated with the horizontal step evaluation
                                   method. In this method, a line on the graphs was considered where a function’s derivative
                                   is zero to find the changes in the mass and determine the step heights of TGA effects.
                                   Moreover, 10 grams of DSS was fed into a high-temperature oven and pyrolyzed at 500,
                                   700, and 900 ◦ C with a heating rate of 10 ◦ C/min in N2 atmosphere. The conversion degree
                                   is defined as Equation (1):
                                                                                 m0 − m
                                                                           α=                                              (1)
                                                                                 m0 − m ∞
                                   where m is the mass of the sample (mg), m0 is the initial sample mass (mg), and m∞ is the
                                   final sample mass (mg) after full conversion.
                                         The rate of pyrolysis as a solid-state reaction can generally be described by
                                   Equation (2) [19]:
                                                                          dα
                                                                              = f (α)K ( T )                              (2)
                                                                          dt
                                   where K(T) is the rate constant and f (α) the reaction model.
Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                          4 of 18




                              The Arrhenius equation is the most common approach to describe the temperature
                          dependence of the rate constant (Equation (3)) [19].
                                                                                Ea
                                                                K ( T ) = k0 ·e− RT                                 (3)

                               k0 stands for the pre-exponential factor, R the gas constant, Ea the activation energy,
                          and T the temperature. The derivation of the Kissinger-Akahira-Sunose (KAS) method
                          has been described in [19] and was used in this work to estimate the activation energy
                          (Equation (4)).
                                                             β          k0 R      Ea
                                                          ln 2 = ln            −      .                             (4)
                                                             T        Ea g(α) R T
                          where g(α) = 0 f dα
                                          Rα
                                              (α)
                                                  .
                               At a given conversion, α, Equation (4) is only a function of the temperature. Therefore,
                          Ea can be estimated by the relation between ln T2 and T1 .
                                                                            β

                               The kinetic reaction of pyrolysis is as Equation (5). The reaction model of a homoge-
                          nous reaction is defined by f (α) = (1 − α)n where n is the reaction order and α the
                          fraction converted.
                                                         
                                                         dα        dα                    Ea
                                                      β        ≡      = (1 − α)n k0 e− R T                          (5)
                                                         dT        dt
                               A mathematically calculated degree of conversion αcalc corresponded to each value
                          of experimental degree of conversion αexp . Then, the error between these two values
                                       2
                           αexp − αcalc was calculated, and the minimal sum error was found to obtain the most
                          correct value for the pre-exponential factor and the order of the reaction.

                          2.3. Char Analysis
                                Since the char contains both the majority of the inorganics together with parts of the
                          organic fractions of the DSS, char analysis was performed to determine the fraction of char
                          and ash at each temperature. In addition, the heating values of the char were evaluated by
                          bomb calorimetry using an IKA C200 (IKA-Werke GmbH & Co. KG, Staufen im Breisgau,
                          Germany). Moreover, the char was dissolved in an acid solution containing 6 mL HNO3 ,
                          2 mL HCl, 1 mL HF, and 0.5 mL H2 O2 by using microwave digestion (Milestone ETHOS UP
                          microwave oven, Acquisition Corp, Hatfield PA, USA). Finally, the resultant solutions were
                          filtered (0.20 µm) and diluted to 50 mL with Milli-Q water and analyzed using Microwave
                          Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (MP-AES, Agilent technologies, Santa Clara CA,
                          USA). All samples tested were analyzed in duplicates for the following elements: Cd, Cl,
                          Co, Cr, Cu, Mg, Ni, Pb, P, and Zn.

                          2.4. Predicting Pyrolysis Products
                          2.4.1. Chemical Fractionation
                               Chemical fractionation, a step-by-step leaching method, using water (H2 O), 1 M am-
                          monium acetate (NH4 Ac), and 1 M hydrochloric acid as different solvents, was performed
                          to quantify the association of elements in the DSS to distinguish the reactive fractions
                          from the less reactive matters in the MSS based on their solubility in the solvents [20–23].
                          However, in this study, only water and ammonium acetate were used. Since the solid
                          residue contains less-reactive elements after leaching with NH4 Ac and indicates the char
                          elemental composition under investigation, leaching with HCl was omitted in this study.
                          Both the leached liquids and the solid fractions were analyzed for ash-forming elements
                          such as Ca, Cl, Fe, K, Mg, Na, S, Si, Al, Ag, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Mn, Mo, Ni, P, Pb, Zn,
                          and Ti [24]. In general, water and ammonium acetate soluble compounds are typical
                          ash-forming matters such as alkali sulfates, carbonates, phosphates, and chlorides, and ion-
                          exchangeable elements such as magnesium, calcium, potassium, and sodium. According to
                          Zevenhoven et al. [20], the ash-forming matter in sewage sludge is mainly inert and found
                           Both the leached liquids and the solid fractions were analyzed for ash-forming elements
                           such as Ca, Cl, Fe, K, Mg, Na, S, Si, Al, Ag, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Mn, Mo, Ni, P, Pb, Zn, and
                           Ti [24]. In general, water and ammonium acetate soluble compounds are typical ash-form-
                           ing matters such as alkali sulfates, carbonates, phosphates, and chlorides, and ion-ex-
Energies 2021, 14, 1477    changeable elements such as magnesium, calcium, potassium, and sodium. According          5 of 18
                                                                                                                          to
                           Zevenhoven et al. [20], the ash-forming matter in sewage sludge is mainly inert and found
                           in the solid residue left after the chemical fractionation. The ash-forming matter in sludge
                           is often dominated by phosphorus precipitating agents such as iron sulfate and aluminum
                          in the solid residue left after the chemical fractionation. The ash-forming matter in sludge
                           sulfate. It is stated that volatile K can be captured by aluminum silicates. Furthermore,
                          is often dominated by phosphorus precipitating agents such as iron sulfate and aluminum
                           crystalline phases containing potassium and phosphorus have been identified in ash from
                          sulfate. It is stated that volatile K can be captured by aluminum silicates. Furthermore,
                           phosphorous-rich
                          crystalline           DSS such as
                                        phases containing    sewage sludge,
                                                           potassium          which arehave
                                                                      and phosphorus    mainly  in identified
                                                                                             been  the form ofinCaK   P2O7,
                                                                                                                 ash 2from
                           MgKPO     4, and CaKPO4 [20,25,26].
                          phosphorous-rich DSS such as sewage sludge, which are mainly in the form of CaK P O ,                                2 2    7
                          MgKPO4 , and CaKPO4 [20,25,26].
                           2.4.2. Thermodynamic Equilibrium Calculations
                          2.4.2. Experimental
                                  Thermodynamic            Equilibrium
                                                      investigations       andCalculations
                                                                                 advanced analyses, along with thermodynamic cal-
                           culations,   have been broadly
                                 Experimental          investigationsappliedandto gain
                                                                                   advanced   a fundamental
                                                                                                   analyses, along understanding
                                                                                                                           with         of the chem-
                                                                                                                                   thermodynamic
                           istry of thermal
                          calculations,      have conversion
                                                      been       in
                                                              broadly the applied
                                                                           process, to  such    as a
                                                                                             gain   combustion,
                                                                                                       fundamental    gasification,    and of
                                                                                                                           understanding    pyrolysis
                                                                                                                                                    the
                          chemistryItofhas
                           [6,27,28].            proven to be
                                             thermal      conversion useful intothe
                                                                                  estimate
                                                                                     process,   thesuch
                                                                                                      fate as
                                                                                                            of the   species, chemical
                                                                                                               combustion,                  composi-
                                                                                                                                  gasification,    and
                           tion, and predict
                          pyrolysis    [6,27,28].the     different
                                                      It has          effective
                                                              proven to            parameters
                                                                              be useful               on thethe
                                                                                             to estimate       process.    Despite
                                                                                                                  fate of the         the proven
                                                                                                                                 species,   chemical ca-
                           pabilities   of  this   technique,     there    are   some     limitations     attributed
                          composition, and predict the different effective parameters on the process. Despite the        to  the  equilibrium     ther-
                           modynamic
                          proven            modeling
                                    capabilities           of thermal
                                                      of this                conversion
                                                              technique, there       are some  processes.     Theattributed
                                                                                                    limitations     limitations     relate to
                                                                                                                                 to the        lack of
                                                                                                                                         equilibrium
                           kinetics,  mass transfer,
                          thermodynamic          modeling of surface    reactions,
                                                                   thermal              and other
                                                                               conversion               physical
                                                                                                 processes.         phenomena.relate
                                                                                                               The limitations        Moreover,      the
                                                                                                                                            to lack of
                          kinetics,
                           reliabilitymass
                                        of the transfer,
                                                   model surface
                                                            dependsreactions,
                                                                         significantly andon  other    physicaldatabases,
                                                                                                  the chosen       phenomena.         Moreover,
                                                                                                                                the selection    ofthe
                                                                                                                                                     the
                          reliability
                           input       ofand
                                   data,   the themodel    depends involved
                                                        compounds        significantly      on the
                                                                                       in the         chosen databases,
                                                                                                 equilibrium      reactions the      selection of the
                                                                                                                               [23,26,29].
                          inputAlldata, and      the were
                                      calculations     compounds        involved
                                                                performed         within the software
                                                                                                equilibrium      reactions
                                                                                                             FactSage      ( [23,26,29].
                                                                                                                            GTT-Technologies, Her-
                                 All calculations
                           zogenrath,   Germany) 7.3     were  performed
                                                             [30],   which iswith based theon software     FactSageof(GTT-Technologies,
                                                                                                  minimization            Gibbs free energy.Her-    The
                          zogenrath,
                           process       Germany)
                                     model       was based7.3 [30],   which is
                                                                on full            based oncalculations.
                                                                             equilibrium           minimization   From of the
                                                                                                                          Gibbs free    energy.
                                                                                                                                literature    andTheour
                          process   model
                           evaluations     forwas     based on full
                                                 different              equilibrium
                                                              subsystems,        one of thecalculations.     Fromand
                                                                                                  most correct        the sufficient
                                                                                                                          literature and     our eval-
                                                                                                                                       databases     for
                          uations
                           P  rich for   different
                                    material            subsystems,
                                                  is he GTT       oxide  one of    the most
                                                                             Database            correctThe
                                                                                            (GTOX).        anddatabase
                                                                                                                sufficientmakes
                                                                                                                              databasesit for   P rich
                                                                                                                                          possible     to
                          material is
                           model        the GTT
                                    oxide             oxide with
                                              compounds       Database   more(GTOX).      Themelting
                                                                                  realistic     databasepoints
                                                                                                             makes it    possible
                                                                                                                      over   the fullto model   oxide
                                                                                                                                        composition
                          compounds
                           range available with  inmore     realistic
                                                     the system     withmelting     points over
                                                                            high accuracy              the full
                                                                                                 [29,31].   The composition
                                                                                                                  purpose of using  range  available
                                                                                                                                         equilibrium
                          in  the system     with     high   accuracy      [29,31].    The    purpose      of using    equilibrium
                           calculations in this study was to estimate the fate of the species in the char, with a special               calculations
                          in  this on
                           focus   study
                                       thewas       to estimate
                                             recovered              theafter
                                                             P, i.e.,    fate the
                                                                                of the   speciesfractionation
                                                                                     chemical        in the char, with      a special focus
                                                                                                                       (less-reactive)    partonof the
                                                                                                                                                     the
                          recovered
                           fuel  was P,
                                      used i.e.,  afterinput
                                              as an      the for
                                                              chemical      fractionation
                                                                    the model.      A schematic (less-reactive)
                                                                                                        figure part
                                                                                                                representsof the
                                                                                                                               thefuel  was used
                                                                                                                                     modeling         as
                                                                                                                                                  strat-
                          an   input  for
                           egy, Figure 1.  the   model.     A  schematic       figure    represents      the  modeling      strategy,   Figure   1.




                          Figure 1. Schematic picture showing chemical fractionation combined with the equilibrium calcula-
                          tion for the temperature range of 500–1000 ◦ C.

                               The thermodynamic data collected from the GTOX make it possible to predict the
                          pure solids, solution species, and oxides available in the char after the pyrolysis process
                          of sewage sludge and the SGTE pure substance database (SGPS) were used to implement
                          the thermodynamic data for gaseous compounds. In case of gases and stoichiometric
                          compounds which are duplicated in both SGPS and the GTOX, the species of SGPS was
                          suppressed and they were selected from the GTOX. Based on the pyrolysis process, the
                          input gas (N2) was assumed to be inert. Solution phases selected from the GTOX are SLAG,
Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                             6 of 18




                          ALPM, C3PL, CORU, MEO, MULL, OLIV, and PYRR. The elements and the composition
                          of solution compounds are provided in Table 2.

                          Table 2. Elements, compounds, and solution models used for the thermodynamics equilibrium
                          calculations in FactSage.

                           Elements
                           H, C, N, O, Na, Mg, Al, Si, P, K, Ca, Fe, Zn, S
                           Database—GTOX (solution models)
                           Slag (liquid phase containing oxides, metals, sulfides, sulfates of existing elements)
                           ALPM (Al, Si)(P, Si)O4                          C3PL (Ca, Mg, Zn)3 (PO4 )2
                           CORU (Al, Fe)2 O3
                           MEO CaO, MgO, K2 O, Al2 O3 , FeO, ZnO
                           OLIV (Ca, Fe, Mg, Zn)(Ca, Fe, Mg, Zn)SiO4
                                                                           PYRR (MgS, FeS)
                           Gases: CO2 , H2 O, H2
                                                                           MULL Al2 (Al, Fe, Si)O5
                           Database—SGPS (stoichiometric
                                                                           Stoichiometric solid compounds
                           compounds)
                           Gas compounds
                           Stoichiometric solid compounds


                               This work is concerned with the phosphorous compounds which remain in char after
                          pyrolysis at different temperatures. Heavy metal removal would be of interest and has been
                          studied extensively in previous research [32,33]. Nonetheless, in this work, the input data
                          resulting from the chemical fractionation revealed a negligible amount of heavy metals
                          in the char. In addition, considering that the thermodynamic data for P, including heavy
                          metals such as Cu, Pb, Ni, Co, Sb, As, and Cd, are not covered in the GTOX, only Zn
                          was considered in the calculations. The amount of P left in the char and the chemical
                          compounds formed at the setup temperature between 500 and 1000 ◦ C were considered in
                          detail. In future work, the sensitivity calculations with different input compositions will be
                          presented in order to evaluate the influencing parameters and flue gas condition on the
                          heavy metal removal rate.

                          3. Results and Discussion
                          3.1. Pyrolysis Treatments
                                Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was performed to investigate the kinetic parame-
                          ters of the decomposition reactions of sewage sludge within the temperature range of 25
                          to 850 ◦ C at different heating rates. An example of the behavior, using a heating rate of
                          20 ◦ C/min can be seen in Figure 2.
                                Each and every graph of TGA curves shows three steps of weight loss that can be
                          evaluated using horizontal tangent evaluations. The first stage represents the mass loss
                          in moisture content. The second step corresponds to the pyrolysis reaction, gas emission,
                          and volatilization of volatile material, with a mass loss of around 60%. Finally, the last
                          step, a sudden drop in weight at 95 minutes, is due to the changing atmosphere, which
                          represents the transition from nitrogen to air and combustion of the remaining carbon in
                          the DSS. Additionally, the thermal decomposition under non-isothermal conditions and
                          different constant heating rate can be observed in Figure 3. From the graphs, it is evident
                          that the heating rate has an effective influence on the decomposition of sewage sludge.
                          Figure 3 represents the KAS plots obtained from experiments performed at 2, 5, 10, 15,
                          and 20 ◦ C/min. In Figure 3, it can be seen that the experimental values are approximately
                          lined up for each conversion, and the activation energy can be obtained from the slopes for
                          different α values between 0.1 and 0.9 at various temperatures. The activation energy of
                          0.9 is 1665 kJ/mol, which is very high and that of 0.1 is very low compared to the other
                          values. This is common and represents the start and ending reactions that are significantly
                          different from the major reactions. Thus, they are not taken into account for calculating the
                          average activation energy, which is found to be about 164 kJ/mol.
Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                     7 of 19

 Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                                     7 of 18




                                                        120                                                                   900
                                                                                                                              800
                                                        100
                                                                                                                              700



                                   Weight loss (%)
                                                               80                                                             600
                                                                                                                              500
                                                               60
                                                                                                                              400   T (°C)
                                                               40                                                             300
                                                                                                                              200
                                                               20
                                                                                                                              100
                                                                0                                                             0
                                                                     0   10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150

                                                                                             Time (min)
                                                                             Sample1         Sample 2       Temperature°C
Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW Figure
                                   Figure 2. 2. Material
                                             Material    decompositionduring
                                                      decomposition    duringsewage
                                                                              sewagesludge
                                                                                     sludgepyrolysis
                                                                                            pyrolysisatatdifferent
                                                                                                          differenttemperatures
                                                                                                                    temperatures 8
                                                                                                                                between
                                                                                                                                be-of 19
                                   25 and
                                 tween     and◦ C
                                        25 850 850as°C
                                                     a as a
                                                       function of time.
                                                            function of time.

                                      Each and every graph of TGA curves shows three steps of weight loss that can be
                                                                             1/T
                                 evaluated
                                        -8 using horizontal tangent evaluations. The first stage represents the mass loss in
                                 moisture 0content. The
                                                    0.0005second0.001
                                                                  step corresponds
                                                                            0.0015 to the   pyrolysis
                                                                                        0.002          reaction, gas
                                                                                                    0.0025      0.003 emission,
                                 and volatilization of volatile material, with a mass loss of around 60%. Finally, the last
                                 step, a-9sudden drop in weight at 95 minutes, is due to the changing atmosphere, which
                                 represents the transition from nitrogen to air and combustion of the remaining carbon in
                                 the DSS. Additionally, the thermal decomposition under non-isothermal conditions and
                                       -10
                                 different constant heating rate can be observed in Figure 3. From the graphs, it is evident
                                 that the heating rate has an effective influence on the decomposition of sewage sludge.

                                       ln(B/T^2)
                                 Figure-113 represents the KAS plots obtained from experiments performed at 2, 5, 10, 15,
                                 and 20 °C/min. In Figure 3, it can be seen that the experimental values are approximately
                                 lined up for each conversion, and the activation energy can be obtained from the slopes
                                 for -12
                                     different α values between 0.1 and 0.9 at various temperatures. The activation energy
                                 of 0.9 is 1665 kJ/mol, which is very high and that of 0.1 is very low compared to the other
                                 values. This is common and represents the start and ending reactions that are significantly
                                       -13
                                 different  from the major reactions. Thus, they are not taken into account for calculating
                                 the average activation energy, which is found to be about 164 kJ/mol.
                                                        -14
                                                                              ⍺ = 0.1           ⍺ = 0.2           ⍺ = 0.3
                                                                              ⍺ = 0.4           ⍺ = 0.5           ⍺ = 0.6
                                                                              ⍺ = 0.7           ⍺ = 0.8           ⍺ = 0.9

                                   Figure 3. Kissinger-Akahira-Sunose (KAS) method for various conversions during sewage sludge
                                   pyrolysis at different temperatures.
                                 Figure 3. Kissinger-Akahira-Sunose (KAS) method for various conversions during sewage sludge
                                 pyrolysis at different
                                        Figure   4 showstemperatures.
                                                           the change in the activation energy, with respect to the conversion and
                                   according to the theoretical expression; the dependence is very low, but it can be seen that
                                   thisFigure
                                        is only4valid
                                                 shows   the change
                                                       above          in theofactivation
                                                             a conversion                  energy,
                                                                               0.3. However,        with respect
                                                                                                it should          to that
                                                                                                            be noted   the the
                                                                                                                            conversion
                                                                                                                                pyrolysis
                                 and  according   to the theoretical expression;   the dependence     is very  low,
                                   reaction is a combination of many different reactions, and all of them are mergedbut  it can be seen
                                                                                                                                   into a
                                 that  this is only  valid above  a
                                   single reaction with this method. conversion   of  0.3.  However,    it should  be  noted   that the
                                 pyrolysis reaction is a combination of many different reactions, and all of them are merged
                                 into a single reaction with this method.


                                                               250




                                           n Energy (kJ/mol)
                                                               200


                                                               150

                                                                                                                                kJ/mol
                                                               100
                         Figure 4 shows the change in the activation energy, with respect to the conversion
                    and according to the theoretical expression; the dependence is very low, but it can be seen
                    that this is only valid above a conversion of 0.3. However, it should be noted that the
                    pyrolysis reaction is a combination of many different reactions, and all of them are merged
Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                                                8 of 18
                    into a single reaction with this method.


                                                250




                   Activation Energy (kJ/mol)
                                                200


                                                150

                                                                                                                                  kJ/mol
                                                100


                                                50


                                                 0
                                                      0           0.2            0.4              0.6           0.8          1
                                                                                       ⍺ value
               Figure4.4.Conversion
              Figure     Conversiondependence
                                    dependenceof
                                               ofthe
                                                  theestimated
                                                      estimatedactivation
                                                                activationenergy
                                                                           energyduring
                                                                                  duringsewage
                                                                                         sewagesludge
                                                                                                sludgepyrolysis.
                                                                                                       pyrol-
               ysis.
                                     Table 3 represents the pre-exponential factor and order of the reaction calculated
                                pyrolysis
                    Table 3 represents the kinetic reaction, and
                                             pre-exponential      it demonstrates
                                                              factor               that
                                                                     and order of the   the reaction
                                                                                      reaction        order
                                                                                               calculated py-increases as the
                                heating  rate decreases.
               rolysis kinetic reaction, and it demonstrates that the reaction order increases as the heating
               rate decreases.
                                                          Table 3. Pre-exponential factor and the reaction order for pyrolysis of sewage sludge at different
                                                          heating rates.

                                                               Heating Rate (◦ C/min)            Sample Mass (mg)            k0                  n
                                                                         2                              3.687           4.78 × 1014             7.18
                                                                         5                              3.769           6.03 × 1014             6.70
                                                                         10                             3.685           1.77 × 1015             6.80
                                                                         15                             3.897           3.60 × 1014             5.87
                                                                         20                             3.792           3.36 × 1014             5.82


                                                          3.2. Char Elemental Composition and Energy Content
                                                               Using horizontal tangent evaluations on obtained TGA curves as described in 3.1, the
                                                          content of total ash, fixed carbon, and volatility for different heating rates were measured
                                                          and shown in Figure 5. An increase in the pyrolysis heating rate from 2 to 20 ◦ C/min at the
                                                          temperature of 850 ◦ C led to an increase in the content of fixed carbon from 5.6 to 7.2 wt.%.
                                                          The highest ash content and the lowest volatile content, 23 and 64 wt.% respectively, were
                                                          found in the char samples from the experiments with the faster heating rate of 20 ◦ C/min;
                                                          further, in the samples with 2 and 5 ◦ C/min heating rate, the volatilization content was
                                                          almost similar at about 70 wt.%.
                                                               The average energy content and the remaining mass obtained after the thermal treat-
                                                          ment in the high temperature oven are summarized in Table 4. It shows that the char
                                                          yield and the heating value decreased with the increasing pyrolysis temperature from
                                                          500 to 700 ◦ C and then increased again at 900 ◦ C. The yield of char dropped slightly from
                                                          28.62 to 26.38 and 24.62 wt.% of dry mass when the pyrolysis temperature was increased
                                                          from 500 to 700 and 900 ◦ C, respectively. This descent could possibly be associated with
                                                          thermal cracking and volatilization, which was also reported for sludge char treated at
                                                          different temperatures.
                              content of total ash, fixed carbon, and volatility for different heating rates were measured
                              and shown in Figure 5. An increase in the pyrolysis heating rate from 2 to 20 °C/min at
                              the temperature of 850 °C led to an increase in the content of fixed carbon from 5.6 to 7.2
                              wt.%. The highest ash content and the lowest volatile content, 23 and 64 wt.% respectively,
                              were found in the char samples from the experiments with the faster heating rate of 20
         Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                                      9 of 18
                              °C/min; further, in the samples with 2 and 5 °C/min heating rate, the volatilization content
                              was almost similar at about 70 wt.%.


                                                                 100%
                                                                  90%
                                                                  80%
                                                                  70%
                                                                  60%
                                             Weight               50%
                                                                  40%
                                                                  30%
                                                                  20%
                                                                  10%
                                                                   0%
                                                                            2 C°/min        5C°/min         10 C°/min        15 C°/min    20 C°/min
                                                                                                           Heating rate
                                                                remaining mass (residue)                          fixed carbon
                                                                volatile content from pyrolysis reaction          moisture content
es 2021, 14, x FOR
                 Figure      Figure
                   PEER REVIEW
                        5. Wt.%              distribution
                                     5. Wt.% of
                                distribution               of ash,
                                                ash, volatiles,     volatiles,
                                                                fixed carbon,fixed carbon, and
                                                                               and moisture     moistureheating
                                                                                            at different at different heating
                                                                                                                rates using   rates
                                                                                                                               10 of 19
                                                                                                                            thermogravimetric
                           using
               analysis (TGA).   thermogravimetric
                               End                  analysis
                                   temperature for all       (TGA).
                                                       samples      End◦ C.
                                                               was 850   temperature for all samples was 850 °C.

                                                                The average energy content and the remaining mass obtained after the thermal treat-
                            Table 4. The yield and4.energy
                                                       The content
                                                           yield   in sewage sludge char  obtained  after treatment at different
                            ment           Table
                                 in the high
                            temperatures.
                                               temperature   ovenand
                                                                   are energy  content
                                                                       summarized    inin  sewage
                                                                                        Table  4. It sludge  char the
                                                                                                     shows that    obtained   after treatment at
                                                                                                                      char yield
                                           different temperatures.
                            and the heating value decreased with the increasing pyrolysis temperature from 500 to
                             Temperature
                            700 °C         °C %
                                    and then        Char
                                             increased    Yield
                                                        again        Average
                                                              at 900 °C.       Energy
                                                                         The yield    (J/g) dropped slightly from 28.62
                                                                                   of char
                                                  Temperature ◦ C                 % Char Yield               Average Energy (J/g)
                            to 26.38500
                                     and 24.62 wt.% of28.7
                                                        dry mass when the 6087
                                                                            pyrolysis temperature was increased from
                                                        500                           28.7                           6087
                            500 to 700
                                    700and 900 °C, respectively.
                                                       26.4      This descent 4070
                                                                              could possibly be associated with thermal
                                                        700                           26.4                           4070
                            cracking  and volatilization,
                                    900                   which was also reported
                                                       24.6
                                                        900                   6499 for24.6
                                                                                        sludge char treated at different
                                                                                                                     6499
                            temperatures.
                            3.2.1. Microwave
                                         3.2.1.Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy
                                                 Microwave Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy
                                 The concentrations  of some selected
                                              The concentrations        species,
                                                                    of some       heavyspecies,
                                                                              selected   metals,heavy
                                                                                                 and phosphorous   were
                                                                                                      metals, and phosphorous   were
                            determined for the char from
                                         determined        pyrolysis
                                                      for the        in the
                                                              char from      high temperature
                                                                         pyrolysis  in the high oven Figures oven
                                                                                                temperature  6 andFigures
                                                                                                                   7. All 6 and 7. All
                            concentrations are stated on dry
                                         concentrations       weighton
                                                         are stated   basis.
                                                                        dry weight basis.

                                                                  500




                              mg of measured elements/kg Char
                                                                  450
                                                                  400
                                                                  350
                                                                  300
                                                                  250
                                                                  200
                                                                  150
                                                                  100
                                                                   50
                                                                    0
                                                                             Zn           Cu               Ni           Pb           Cr          Cd

                                                                                               500 (°C)    700 (°C)   900 (°C)

               Figure 6. The measured contents of the selected heavy metals in the char after sewage sludge pyrolysis at different
               temperatures;Figure  6. The
                              error bars   measured
                                         represent    contents
                                                   standard    of the selected
                                                            deviation           heavy metals in the char after sewage sludge py-
                                                                        of the results.
                           rolysis at different temperatures; error bars represent standard deviation of the results.


                                                                  70,000


                                                                  60,000
                                                 0
                                                           Zn             Cu                  Ni                 Pb          Cr         Cd

                                                                               500 (°C)         700 (°C)     900 (°C)

Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                                                10 of 18
                   Figure 6. The measured contents of the selected heavy metals in the char after sewage sludge py-
                   rolysis at different temperatures; error bars represent standard deviation of the results.


                                               70,000


                                               60,000




                      mg of elements/kg Char
                                               50,000


                                               40,000


                                               30,000


                                               20,000


                                               10,000


                                                     0
                                                                P          Mg                      K              Na          Ca         Fe

                                                                                  500 °C           700 °C    900 °C
      Figure 7. Recovery of the main nutrients in the char after sewage sludge pyrolysis at different temperatures; error bars
      represent the standard deviation.

                                                         3.2.2. Trace Elements
                                                              The trace elements content in the char is shown in Figure 6. The concentration of As
                                                         and Co was under the detection limit in all char samples. The concentration of Cd declined
                                                         significantly. Cr, Cu, Ni, and Pb indicate inconclusive results. The concentration of Zn and
                                                         Ni was higher in the char at the temperatures 500 ◦ C and 700 ◦ C compared to that at at
                                                         900 ◦ C. This reduction above 700 ◦ C indicates the de-volatilization of some of these metals
                                                         at these range of temperatures [7,34].
                                                              Table 5 shows the weight percentage of each element that remained in the char after
                                                         pyrolysis compared to the original DSS. According to Table 5, the highest P recovery at
                                                         700 ◦ C is 100 percent, and by increasing the temperature up to 900 ◦ C, the heavy metal
                                                         removal also increases; therefore, the optimum pyrolysis temperature may be between 700
                                                         and 900 ◦ C.

                                                         Table 5. The percentage of recovered elements in the char after pyrolysis of sewage sludge.

                                                           Temperature ◦ C                P                 Mg          Ca         Zn    Cu   Cr       Ni
                                                                    500                    90               29          53         31    72   91       70
                                                                    700                   100               12          23         34    77   90       76
                                                                    900                    93               9           26         25    69   87       34


                                                              The Cd-content is highly restricted when MSS is applied to the food production system
                                                         since it is among the most toxic heavy metals [35,36]. From Figure 6, it can be seen that the
                                                         maximum amount of Cd is less than 8 mg/kg char on a dry basis. This can be attributed
                                                         to the decreased oxide formation in the reducing atmosphere in the pyrolysis process,
                                                         thus, facilitating the high Cd vaporization. These results are in line with those from other
                                                         research in slow pyrolysis atmosphere [8]. The high Cd-release can be mentioned as an
                                                         advantage of pyrolysis over combustion since more oxides are present in the combustion
                                                         ashes than the pyrolysis char; therefore, Cd stabilization takes place in the ashes as a result
                                                         of Al and Si oxide formation at high temperatures [8,37].

                                                         Phosphorous and Other Nutrients
                                                              Figure 7 shows the total concentration of elements, which are important nutrients
                                                         present in the wastewater treatment sludge and the sludge char. The amount of Fe increased
Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                          11 of 18




                          in the char created at 500, 700, and 900 ◦ C with respect to the original DSS. For instance,
                          comparing Figure 7 and Table 1, at a temperature of 900 ◦ C, the content of Fe in the
                          char after pyrolysis reaction reaches 15g Fe per kg char compared to 3.8 g per kg DSS,
                          which clearly indicates that Fe remained in the solid state after pyrolysis. In the case of
                          Mg, the concentration dropped significantly, when going from 500 to 700 ◦ C; however,
                          the difference between 700 and 900 ◦ C was much smaller. Ca decreased constantly with
                          increased temperature from 500 to 900 ◦ C. The highest availability of Na and K was found
                          at 500 and 900 ◦ C, respectively. P was the desired element in the char in the current
                          pyrolysis process. Considering Figure 7 and Table 5, it was revealed that retention of P in
                          the char was about 100% at temperature 700 ◦ C, while the concentration of P declined in
                          the char after pyrolysis at 900 ◦ C which was also supported by the thermal equilibrium
                          calculations below.
                               It has been observed in other studies that pyrolysis generally results in high P
                          availability in plants compared to incineration [38] and the higher temperature from
                          300 ◦ C to 700 ◦ C increases the P bioavailability [16]; however, the char yield decreases at
                          higher temperatures.

                          3.3. Chemical Fractionation
                               The reactive and non-reactive fractions of the ash-forming elements are important
                          in order to understand the char behavior during thermal conversion of biomass such
                          as pyrolysis of sewage sludge [20,23,39]. The soluble and non-soluble fractions of the
                          main elements and the heavy metals following chemical fractionation are represented in
                          Figures 8 and 9. The distribution of P in the applied solvents and the insoluble part shows
                          that most of the P remained in the solid residue. This result is supported by previous
                          findings [22]. The sewage sludge mostly contains an inorganic form of P, due to the
                          primary sedimentation process and by removing the phosphate settling of the insoluble
                          precipitates [16]. As can be seen in Figure 8, most of the P, Al, and Fe remained in the
                          solid residue. It is mainly because P is highly associated with metal/inorganic compounds
                          as a result of the precipitation process with Al-salts, Fe-salts, or lime. The proportion of
                          Na, K, and Mg left in the solid remaining reflects the bonds, which are harder in the char
                          than in the sewage sludge. Another finding was the high solubility of Cl, indicated by the
                          negligible concentration of Cl in the char. This high solubility confirmed the high reactivity
                          during thermal treatment of the sludge, according to Pettersson’s finding that Cl forms
                          HCl and heavy metals-Cl in the gas phase [22].
                               According to Figure 9, the amount of heavy metals found in the solid residue from the
                          chemical fractionation is very low compared with the amount of other elements represented
                          in Figure 8. This is because most of the heavy metal contribution is found in the reactive
                          part and is ion-exchangeable; therefore, it is more likely to transfer into the gaseous phase
                          during pyrolysis and separated in the gaseous cleaning system. Mo, Cr, Pb, and Sb have
                          high fractions in water and NH4 Ac solubility, indicating that these heavy metals are
                          negligible in the char. However, Cu and Zn are mostly found in the solid residue, thus they
                          have a stronger bond to the solids.
                                in the solid remaining reflects the bonds, which are harder in the char than in the sewage
                                sludge. Another finding was the high solubility of Cl, indicated by the negligible concen-
                                tration of Cl in the char. This high solubility confirmed the high reactivity during thermal
                                treatment of the sludge, according to Pettersson’s finding that Cl forms HCl and heavy
         Energies 2021, 14, 1477metals-Cl in the gas phase [22].                                                                             12 of 18




ies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                               13 of 19
                           Figure
              Figure 8. Results    8. Resultsfractionation
                                of chemical   of chemical fractionation of sewage
                                                           of sewage sludge  (mainsludge (main
                                                                                   elements).   elements).
                                                                                              Crosses      Crosses
                                                                                                      represent therepresent
                                                                                                                    total concentration of
                           the total concentration
              the element in the sewage sludge.     of the element in the sewage sludge.

                                 According to Figure 9, the amount of heavy metals found in the solid residue from
                            the chemical fractionation is very low compared with the amount of other elements rep-
                            resented in Figure 8. This is because most of the heavy metal contribution is found in the
                            reactive part and is ion-exchangeable; therefore, it is more likely to transfer into the gase-
                            ous phase during pyrolysis and separated in the gaseous cleaning system. Mo, Cr, Pb, and
                            Sb have high fractions in water and NH4Ac solubility, indicating that these heavy metals
                            are negligible in the char. However, Cu and Zn are mostly found in the solid residue, thus
                            they have a stronger bond to the solids.




              Figure 9. Results  from
                             Figure 9. the chemical
                                       Results fromfractionation
                                                     the chemicalof  the sewage sludge
                                                                   fractionation         (heavy sludge
                                                                                 of the sewage  metals);(heavy
                                                                                                         crossesmetals);
                                                                                                                 represent the total concentra-
                                                                                                                         crosses
              tion of the element  in the sewage  sludge.
                             represent the total concentration of the element in the sewage sludge.

                            3.4. Equilibrium
                                           3.4.Product
                                                Equilibrium Product
                                                Equilibrium were
                                 Equilibrium calculations       calculations
                                                                        performedwerefor the
                                                                                       performed
                                                                                              sewagefor the sewage
                                                                                                        sludge       sludge
                                                                                                                on dry  basis.on   dry basis. The
                                                                                                                                 The
                                          model
                            model contained        contained
                                               the less        the part
                                                         reactive   less ofreactive
                                                                              the part   of P,
                                                                                  elements  theNa, K,
                                                                                                 elements
                                                                                                       Mg,P,Fe,
                                                                                                             Na,  K,Al,
                                                                                                                Ca,  Mg,Si,Fe,
                                                                                                                            Cl,Ca,
                                                                                                                                 andAl, Si, Cl, and
                            the total     the total of C,
                                      concentration  concentration
                                                            H, N, and   of C,  H,the
                                                                            O in  N, and  O in the
                                                                                     sewage         sewage
                                                                                              sludge,  whichsludge,  which was
                                                                                                              was assumed          assumed to be
                                                                                                                               to be
                                          reactive.
                            reactive. Therefore,      Therefore,
                                                   to focus        to focus
                                                              on the            on the
                                                                        prediction     prediction
                                                                                     of the chemicalof the chemical of the
                                                                                                        compositions  compositions
                                                                                                                                char of the char
                                          using
                            using FactSage,       FactSage,
                                              all of the      all of
                                                          heavy      the heavy
                                                                  metals    were metals   were
                                                                                   excluded      excluded as
                                                                                              as reactants,    reactants,
                                                                                                            except  for Zn,except
                                                                                                                             due to for Zn, due to
                            the high concentration in the residue from the chemical fractionation compared to the to the other
                                          the high   concentration    in  the  residue from  the chemical  fractionation  compared
                                          heavy metals,
                            other heavy metals,    Figure Figure
                                                           9.        9.

                                          3.4.1.byChar
                            3.4.1. Char Yield          Yield by Calculations
                                                   Equilibrium   Equilibrium Calculations

                                  According toAccording     to the calculations,
                                                 the equilibrium   equilibrium calculations,   theconsisting
                                                                                 the char yields,  char yields,
                                                                                                              of consisting of solid carbon
                                                                                                                 solid carbon
                                          and   ash after pyrolysis, decreased   with increasing  pyrolysis
                            and ash after pyrolysis, decreased with increasing pyrolysis temperature, Figuretemperature,   Figure
                                                                                                                     10. How-      10. How-
                                          ever, at a temperature approximately between 550 and 600 ◦ C, the char yield showed a
                            ever, at a temperature approximately between 550 and 600 °C, the char yield             showed a
                                          decrease. In addition, by increasing the temperature up to 750 ◦ C, the rate of mass loss
                            decrease. In addition, by increasing the temperature up to 750 °C, the rate of mass loss
                                          declined steadily. There was an almost constant yield approximately between 750 and
                            declined steadily. There was an almost constant yield approximately between 750 and 850
                            °C, while the most sudden mass loss occurred approximately around 850 to 900 °C, where
                            it changed by more than 3%, and between 900 °C and 1000 °C it was almost constant again.
                            At the temperatures from 500 °C to 1000 °C, the total char yields decreased by 13%, while
                            it decreased by 8% by pyrolysis from 500 °C to 750 °C.
    Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                               13 of 18




Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                 14 of 19
                                      850 ◦ C, while the most sudden mass loss occurred approximately around 850 to 900 ◦ C,
                                                                                        ◦            ◦
 Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW where it changed by more than 3%, and between 900 C and 1000 C it was almost 14 of
                                                                                                                      constant
                                                                                                                          19
                                                                         ◦          ◦
                                      again. At the temperatures from 500 C to 1000 C, the total char yields decreased by 13%,
                                      while                                         ◦         ◦
                                       50 it decreased by 8% by pyrolysis from 500 C to 750 C.
                                              4550
                                              4045
                                              3540
                                              3035

                                            wt. %
                                              2530

                                       wt. %  2025
                                              1520
                                              1015
                                                    510
                                                    05
                                                           500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 1000
                                                      0
                                                                500 550 600 650 700T(°C)
                                                                                     750 800 850 900 950 1000
                                                                                 CharT(°C)
                                                                                      Yields (%)
                                                                            Char Yields
                                 Figure 10. Char yield during pyrolysis of sewage        (%)at different temperatures calculated in
                                                                                    sludge
                                 thermodynamic equilibrium condition.
                                      Figure
                                   Figure 10.10.
                                             CharChar  yield
                                                   yield     during
                                                         during     pyrolysis
                                                                pyrolysis      of sewage
                                                                          of sewage        sludge
                                                                                      sludge        at different
                                                                                              at different       temperatures
                                                                                                           temperatures       calculated
                                                                                                                        calculated in    in
                                      thermodynamic   equilibrium condition.
                                   thermodynamic equilibrium condition.
                                       According to the thermodynamic equilibrium calculations, the pyrolysis temperature
                                 affects the  fixed carbon
                                           According          and
                                                         to the      ash in the char
                                                                thermodynamic           as shown calculations,
                                                                                      equilibrium    in Figure 11. The    thermodynamic
                                         According    to the thermodynamic         equilibrium    calculations, thethe  pyrolysis
                                                                                                                     pyrolysis     temperature
                                                                                                                                temperature
                                 equilibrium
                                      affects   amount
                                              the  fixed  of ash
                                                          carbon  is almost
                                                                    and  ash  constant
                                                                               in the    in
                                                                                       char the
                                                                                             as  char
                                                                                                shown  after
                                                                                                          in pyrolysis
                                                                                                             Figure  11.process
                                                                                                                         The     at all tem-
                                                                                                                              thermodynamic
                                   affects the fixed carbon and ash in the char as shown in Figure 11. The thermodynamic
                                 peratures   and it isamount
                                      equilibrium      slightlyofincreased
                                                                    ash       at 850 constant
                                                                         is almost     °C, whereasthe carbon   decreased   with increasing
                                   equilibrium    amount of ash     is almost   constant in theinchar     charpyrolysis
                                                                                                         after  after pyrolysis
                                                                                                                         processprocess     at all
                                                                                                                                   at all tem-
                                 temperature     from and
                                      temperatures      500 it
                                                             °Cistoslightly
                                                                     1000 °C.    These at
                                                                             increased   calculated◦   results  arecarbon
                                                                                                                    supported    by experi-
                                   peratures and it is slightly increased        at 850 °C,◦ whereas carbon decreased with increasingin-
                                                                             ◦ Cas
                                                                                              850    C, whereas            decreased     with
                                 mental   results from    other from
                                                                research    [5]     well
                                                                                     1000ascalculated
                                                                                             in the  present   study.
                                   temperature from 500 °C to 1000 °C.toThese
                                      creasing   temperature            500                 C.  These   calculated
                                                                                                         results areresults are supported
                                                                                                                      supported   by experi-by
                                      experimental results from other research [5] as well as in the present study.
                                   mental results from other research [5] as well as in the present study.
                                                    300
                                                     300
                                                    250
                                                     250
                                                    200

                                           g/kg
                                                     200
                                                    150

                                               g/kg  150
                                                    100
                                                      100
                                                      50

                                                          050
                                                                 500    550    600    650   700   750   800   850   900   950 1000
                                                           0
                                                                  500    550650 700 T(°C)
                                                                                600     750 800 850 900 950 1000
                                                                             Carbon        Ash
                                                                                       T(°C)
                                          Figure 11. The calculated equilibrium  composition of
                                                                              Carbon        Ashthe char from pyrolysis of sewage sludge at
                                 Figure  11. Thetemperatures.
                                      different   calculated equilibrium composition of the char from pyrolysis of sewage sludge at
                                 different temperatures.
                                   Figure 11. The calculated equilibrium composition of the char from pyrolysis of sewage sludge at
                                   different temperatures.
                                 3.4.2. Prediction of the Phase Formation in the Char
                                       The
                                   3.4.2.   thermodynamic
                                          Prediction         equilibrium
                                                     of the Phase        calculations
                                                                  Formation           indicate that all N in the DSS is trans-
                                                                             in the Char
                                 ferred from the char to gaseous products from 500 to 1000 °C, mainly because of the vo-
                                         The thermodynamic equilibrium calculations indicate that all N in the DSS is trans-
                                 latilization of N compounds at higher pyrolysis temperature. Similarly, previous work
                                   ferred from the char to gaseous products from 500 to 1000 °C, mainly because of the vo-
                                   latilization of N compounds at higher pyrolysis temperature. Similarly, previous work
Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                      15 of 19


Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                                    14 of 18

                                      conducted by Hossain et al. (2011) found that the available nitrogen in the char can still
                                      be conserved below 400 °C in the form of ammonium nitrogen (NH 4–N), while nitrate-
                                      nitrogen   (NO3–N)ofand
                                       3.4.2. Prediction     theother
                                                                  PhaseNFormation
                                                                            groups’ volatile      matter transferred into the gas at 200 °C
                                                                                         in the Char
                                      during pyrolysis [40]. Figure 12a shows the thermodynamic equilibrium calculation re-
                                             The thermodynamic equilibrium calculations indicate that all N in the DSS is trans-
                                      sults on the P distribution in the char and the gaseous product.               P in the char presents a
                                       ferred from the char to gaseous products from 500 to 1000 ◦ C, mainly because of the
                                      downward trend above 800 °C. Figure 12b represents the thermodynamically stable P
                                       volatilization of N compounds at higher pyrolysis temperature. Similarly, previous work
                                      compounds at different pyrolysis temperatures. The calculated P species are in agreement
                                       conducted by Hossain et al. (2011) found that the available nitrogen in the char can still
                                      with  the experiment
                                       be conserved     belowresults
                                                               400 ◦ Cfrom
                                                                        in theprevious
                                                                                 form of  studies  [8], showing
                                                                                            ammonium              that(NH
                                                                                                            nitrogen   all P –N),
                                                                                                                              is associated  with
                                                                                                                                    while nitrate-
                                                                                                                            4
                                      Al, K,  Ca, Mg,  and  Fe in  the inorganic     crystal   structure  and  inorganic   solution
                                       nitrogen (NO3 –N) and other N groups’ volatile matter transferred into the gas at 200 ◦ C      matter.
                                            Thepyrolysis
                                       during    highest mass
                                                           [40].fraction   of Pshows
                                                                  Figure 12a      can bethefound   in the Al phosphate
                                                                                               thermodynamic                compound,
                                                                                                                   equilibrium            Figure
                                                                                                                                   calculation  re-
                                      12b.  Due  to the P precipitation   process     in the wastewater     treatment  which
                                       sults on the P distribution in the char and the gaseous product. P in the char presents   was  performed
                                      with  Al-based trend
                                       a downward      chemicals,
                                                              abovein800
                                                                       this◦ C.
                                                                             case,  it was
                                                                                 Figure     expected
                                                                                          12b           to form
                                                                                                represents       a certain Al-P compound
                                                                                                             the thermodynamically       stableinP
                                      the  simulated   char  that  was  left  in  the  residue;   experimental    results  investigated
                                       compounds at different pyrolysis temperatures. The calculated P species are in agreement            in the
                                      literature  support  these  findings    as well   [6,8].
                                       with the experiment results from previous studies [8], showing that all P is associated with
                                          Al, K, Ca, Mg, and Fe in the inorganic crystal structure and inorganic solution matter.

             18            P in biochar                P in gas phase
             16
             14
             12
             10
      g/kg
             8
             6
             4
             2
             0
                  500     600      700           800         900        1000

                                         T(°C)


                                    (a)                                                                  (b)
     Figure
      Figure12.
             12.(a)
                 (a)The
                     The calculated
                          calculated equilibrium distribution
                                                  distribution of
                                                               of PPin
                                                                     inthe
                                                                        thegaseous
                                                                            gaseousproduct
                                                                                    productandandthe
                                                                                                   thechar
                                                                                                        char during
                                                                                                           during   pyrolysis
                                                                                                                  pyrolysis of of sew-
                                                                                                                               sew-age
     age sludge
      sludge at at  different
                different     temperatures;
                           temperatures;  (b)(b)
                                              thethe calculated
                                                  calculated    equilibrium
                                                             equilibrium      composition
                                                                           composition  of of P-compound
                                                                                           P-compound        during
                                                                                                           during   pyrolysis
                                                                                                                  pyrolysis ofof  sew-
                                                                                                                                sewage
     age sludge
      sludge at at  different
                different     temperatures.
                           temperatures.

                                            KPMgO4
                                             The        is mass fraction
                                                   highest thermodynamically         stable
                                                                            of P can be     in the
                                                                                         found       entire
                                                                                                 in the     temperature
                                                                                                        Al phosphate       range from
                                                                                                                       compound,           500 to
                                                                                                                                      Figure   12b.
                                      1000
                                       Due °Cto in
                                                thethe
                                                     P GTOX       database.
                                                       precipitation         This
                                                                        process    result
                                                                                 in the    supports the
                                                                                         wastewater        chemical
                                                                                                       treatment     fractionation
                                                                                                                  which was           that the
                                                                                                                               performed         K
                                                                                                                                              with
                                      and   Mg were left
                                       Al-based             in the
                                                    chemicals,       residue.
                                                                  in this     Theit only
                                                                           case,          metal-forming
                                                                                    was expected            phosphide
                                                                                                      to form a         is Fe,
                                                                                                                  certain  Al-PFigure    12b. in
                                                                                                                                  compound
                                       the The    formation
                                            simulated    charof    thewas
                                                                that   slagleft
                                                                            at in
                                                                               different  temperatures,
                                                                                   the residue;             Figure 13,
                                                                                                   experimental         shows that
                                                                                                                   results investigatedthe Pinslag
                                                                                                                                                the
                                      starts to form   from   650   °C, and  P is decreased
                                       literature support these findings as well [6,8].        and  released  in the form  of P 2 and   CHP    gas
                                      species at
                                             KPMgO a 4 is
                                                     temperature of      850 °C, Figure
                                                            thermodynamically             14. in
                                                                                      stable   Only
                                                                                                 the aentire
                                                                                                       few oxides   can be found
                                                                                                             temperature    range in fromthe500
                                                                                                                                             slag,
                                                                                                                                                 to
                                      which◦is
                                       1000    C ain the
                                                    result of
                                                         GTOX thedatabase.
                                                                    reducing This
                                                                               atmosphere
                                                                                     result in   the the
                                                                                            supports  pyrolysis  process. This
                                                                                                            chemical             is in line
                                                                                                                      fractionation          withK
                                                                                                                                        that the
                                       and Mg
                                      the  resultswere
                                                    fromleft in  the residue.
                                                          previous     researchThe
                                                                                 [8].only metal-forming phosphide is Fe, Figure 12b.
                                             The formation of the slag at different temperatures, Figure 13, shows that the P slag
                                       starts to form from 650 ◦ C, and P is decreased and released in the form of P2 and CHP gas
                                       species at a temperature of 850 ◦ C, Figure 14. Only a few oxides can be found in the slag,
                                       which is a result of the reducing atmosphere in the pyrolysis process. This is in line with
                                       the results from previous research [8].
                                             The percentage of nutrient recovery can be seen in Figure 15. The recovery of P
                                       and C decreases up to 55% and 5%, respectively, with the increasing temperature from
                                       800 ◦ C to 900 ◦ C because of the P and C transferring to the gaseous product, as can be seen
                                       in Figure 14. However, due to the slag formation of K-silicate as well as the stability of
                                       KPMgO4 in the entire temperature span, the amount of Mg and K in the char is almost
                                       constant from 500 ◦ C to 1000 ◦ C and about 100% recovered.
Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                             16 of 19
   Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                              16 of 19
      Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                             15 of 18




                                 Figure  13. 13.
                                    Figure   TheThe
                                                  calculated  equilibrium
                                                      calculated equilibriumcomposition
                                                                              compositionofofslag
                                                                                               slagcompounds
                                                                                                     compounds(liquid
                                                                                                               (liquid species)
                                                                                                                        species) during
                                                                                                                                 during py-
                                    Figure
                                 rolysis of 13.  The sludge
                                            sewage   calculated
                                                             at  equilibrium
                                                                different     composition of slag compounds (liquid species) during py-
                                                                          temperatures.
                                    pyrolysis of sewage sludge at different temperatures.
                                    rolysis of sewage sludge at different temperatures.

                                          0.14
                                             0.14
                                          0.12
                                             0.12
                                           0.1
                                              0.1
                                          0.08
                                        Moles0.08
                                          0.06
                                       Moles 0.06
                                          0.04
                                             0.04
                                          0.02
                                             0.02
                                             0
                                                0
                                                    500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 1000
                                                      500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 1000
                                                                         T(°C)
                                                                           T(°C)

                                                                               P2(g)           CHP(g)
                                                                                 P2(g)          CHP(g)
                                       Figure 14.   The calculated equilibrium composition of the gaseous product containing P at
                                 Figure   14. The
                                     different      calculated equilibrium composition of the gaseous product containing P at different
                                                temperatures.
                                    Figure   14.  The calculated equilibrium composition of the gaseous product containing P at different
                                 temperatures.
                                    temperatures.
                                           Comparing Table 5 and Figure 15, the experimental results are far from the results
                                     obtained
                                       The       from the modeling;
                                              percentage     of of
                                                                 nutrient thisrecovery
                                                                               is mainlycan because
                                                                                                bebe  of the
                                                                                                    seen      restrictions  of thermodynamics
                                           The    percentage        nutrient    recovery can           seenininFigure
                                                                                                                 Figure15.15.The
                                                                                                                               Therecovery
                                                                                                                                     recoveryofofPPandand
                                     equilibrium
                                 C decreases      up calculations,
                                                      to 55%    and  lack
                                                                      5%,  of  kinetic
                                                                            respectively,reactions,
                                                                                               with  and
                                                                                                      the limitations
                                                                                                          increasing    with   the databases.
                                                                                                                         temperature      from   In
                                                                                                                                                  800 °C
                                    C  decreases     up  to 55%    and   5%,   respectively,     with   the  increasing    temperature
                                     addition, the system is very complicated, with a high number of elements; also, calculations           from   800  °C
                                 to to
                                    900900°C°C because
                                                   becauseof  the   P  and   C   transferring     to  the  gaseous     product,    as  can  be   seen  in
                                     are performed      withof   the data
                                                              input    P and    C transferring
                                                                             close                  to the gaseous
                                                                                     to the real chemical               product,
                                                                                                              composition            as can
                                                                                                                              of sewage       be seen in
                                                                                                                                           sludge
                                 Figure
                                    Figure 14.14.However,
                                                    However,   duedue to to
                                                                          thetheslag
                                                                                   slagformation
                                                                                          formation  ofofK-silicate
                                                                                                            K-silicate asaswell
                                                                                                                             well asasthe
                                                                                                                                        thestability
                                                                                                                                             stability ofof
                                     char. Such calculations with complex input data contribute to uncertain results that could
                                 KPMgO
                                    KPMgO
                                     be  far4from      entire
                                                  thethe
                                              in4 in           temperature
                                                          entire
                                                    experimental   temperature
                                                                     results.      span,
                                                                               Thus,  span,the     amountofof
                                                                                                amount
                                                                                              the
                                                                                        thermodynamic           MgMgand    KKinin
                                                                                                                       andof
                                                                                                            calculations          the
                                                                                                                                    thechar
                                                                                                                              complex    char isisalmost
                                                                                                                                         systems,  almost
                                 constant
                                    constant
                                     such    from
                                            as sewage500
                                                 from 500 °C  to  1000
                                                             °C tocan
                                                         sludge,     1000°C
                                                                         be °Cand
                                                                             usedandabout
                                                                                       about
                                                                                    to get   100%
                                                                                            an100%  recovered.
                                                                                                       recovered.
                                                                                                overview of     possible reactions and hence
                                     predict the direction and explain the ash behavior [6].
nergies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                   17
        Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                          16 of 18




                                                                          100



                                       Recovery percent of nutrients in
                                                                           90
                                                                           80
                                                                           70
                                                                           60                                                        C
                                                                           50                                                        P



                                                char (wt.%)
                                                                           40
                                                                                                                                     Mg
                                                                           30
                                                                                                                                     K
                                                                           20
                                                                           10
                                                                            0
                                                                                500   600   700   800     850   900   1000
                                                                                                  T(°C)
                                      Figure
                                  Figure   15.15.
                                               TheThecalculated
                                                      calculated equilibrium
                                                                  equilibriumcomposition of the remaining
                                                                                composition               nutrients from
                                                                                                of the remaining         sewagefrom
                                                                                                                     nutrients  sludgesewage
                                                                                                                                       at    slu
                                      different pyrolysis temperature.
                                  at different pyrolysis temperature.
                                      4. Conclusions
                                        Comparing
                                            The presentTable
                                                           work 5verified
                                                                    and Figure     15, the experimental
                                                                           that P remained    in the solid char  results
                                                                                                                   while are   far heavy
                                                                                                                          several    from the re
                                  obtained    from the
                                      metals were          modeling;
                                                    released to          this
                                                                 the gases by is
                                                                              themainly    because
                                                                                  application of  the of  the process
                                                                                                      pyrolysis restrictionsdryofsewage
                                                                                                                                   thermodyna
                                  equilibrium calculations, lack of kinetic reactions, and limitations with thethe
                                      sludge.  A  clear result from  this investigation  was that  the pyrolysis   temperature   was     database
                                      most important parameter influencing the char’s chemical composition, and the yield
                                  addition, the system is very complicated, with a high number of elements; also, calc
                                      of char declines with increasing temperature. No clear dependency of the activation
                                  tions  are on
                                      energy   performed
                                                  the heatingwith     input
                                                               rate was       dataand
                                                                         detected,   close  to the real
                                                                                        the activation energychemical    composition
                                                                                                                 was not increased    with of sew
                                  sludge    char. Such
                                      increasing          calculations
                                                   heating rate.           withelements
                                                                  All the main   complexin the
                                                                                            input    data material
                                                                                                 original   contributeweretofound
                                                                                                                             uncertain
                                                                                                                                    in the results
                                      char.
                                  could      Additionally,
                                          be far  from the       heating value
                                                         experimental            indicates
                                                                            results. Thus,that there   was still a large
                                                                                             thermodynamic                 quantity of
                                                                                                                     calculations     of C
                                                                                                                                         complex
                                      left in the char  at the  higher  temperatures.   From   the  result, it is concluded
                                  tems, such as sewage sludge, can be used to get an overview of possible reactions           that  in the
                                      pyrolysis process, the concentration of As, Cd, and Co decreased significantly in the char.
                                  hence    predict
                                      Moreover,   as the  direction
                                                     predicted  by theand    explain
                                                                        chemical       the ash Cu
                                                                                 fractionation,  behavior
                                                                                                    and Zn were[6]. mostly unaffected by
                                      the pyrolysis process with respect to the concentration of P in the char. Both experimental
                                  4. and
                                    Conclusions
                                         thermodynamic equilibrium calculations confirmed that over 90% of the P remained in
                                      the char up to 850 ◦ C. Therefore, a clear understanding from this work was that to achieve
                                        The present work verified that P remained in the solid char while several heavy
                                      a char with a maximum amount of nutrients useful either as a soil improvers or for further
                                  als were
                                      refineryreleased   to theindustry,
                                               in the fertilizer gases bythe the  application
                                                                              pyrolysis should beofperformed
                                                                                                     the pyrolysis    process
                                                                                                               below 850 ◦       onPdry sew
                                                                                                                            C since
                                  sludge.
                                      startsA  cleargaseous
                                            to form   result from   this while
                                                               compounds,  investigation    was
                                                                                   K, Na, and Mgthat    thein a
                                                                                                   are still pyrolysis    temperature wa
                                                                                                                solid-state.
                                  most important parameter influencing the char’s chemical composition, and the yie
                                      Author Contributions: Conceptualization, methodology, and formal analysis, N.V., L.-E.Å., A.C.,
                                  charT.R.
                                        declines     with increasing temperature. No clear dependency of the activation en
                                           and A.P.; investigation, N.V., L.-E.Å., A.C., T.R. and A.P.; validation, N.V., L.-E.Å., A.C., T.R. and
                                  on the    heating rate was
                                      A.P.; writing—original   draft detected,     and writing—review
                                                                     preparation, N.V.;   the activation    andenergy      was not
                                                                                                                 editing, L.-E.Å.,   T.R. increased
                                                                                                                                          and A.P.;   with
                                  creasing    heating
                                      visualization,  N.V.;rate.  All the
                                                            supervision,     main
                                                                         L.-E.Å.,    elements
                                                                                  T.R. and          in he
                                                                                            A.P.; project    original A.P.
                                                                                                          administration  material       were
                                                                                                                                All authors      found in
                                                                                                                                              have
                                      read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
                                  char. Additionally, the heating value indicates that there was still a large quantity of C
                                      Funding:
                                  in the  char atThis research
                                                    the  higher received no external funding.
                                                                   temperatures.         From the result, it is concluded that in the pyro
                                  process, the concentration of As, Cd, and Co decreased significantly in the char. Moreo
                                      Data  Availability  Statement:   Not necessary.
                                  as predicted     by theThe
                                      Acknowledgments:        chemical     fractionation,
                                                                 authors would also   like to Cu     and Zn
                                                                                              acknowledge   the were
                                                                                                                researchmostly       unaffected
                                                                                                                          facilities and  technical by the
                                      assistance
                                  rolysis        of thewith
                                            process     Energy lab  at
                                                               respect University
                                                                          to  the of Borås   for the support
                                                                                    concentration        of Pand  equipment
                                                                                                               in the           regarding the lab
                                                                                                                        char. Both         experimental
                                      scale experiments. The authors would also like to give a special acknowledgement to NODAVA for
                                  thermodynamic          equilibrium calculations confirmed that over 90% of the P remaine
                                      the supply of municipal sewage sludge.
                                  the char up to 850 °C. Therefore, a clear understanding from this work was that to ach
                                      Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
                                  a char with a maximum amount of nutrients useful either as a soil improvers or for fur
                                  refinery in the fertilizer industry, the pyrolysis should be performed below 850 °C sin
                                  starts to form gaseous compounds, while K, Na, and Mg are still in a solid-state.

                                  Author Contributions: Conceptualization, methodology, and formal analysis, N.V., L.-E.Å .,
Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                               17 of 18




References
1.    Van Vuuren, D.P.; Bouwman, A.F.; Beusen, A.H.W. Phosphorus demand for the 1970–2100 period: A scenario analysis of resource
      depletion. Glob. Environ. Chang. 2010, 20, 428–439. [CrossRef]
2.    Cordell, D.; Drangert, J.-O.; White, S. The story of phosphorus: Global food security and food for thought. Glob. Environ. Chang.
      2009, 19, 292–305. [CrossRef]
3.    Kelessidis, A.; Stasinakis, A.S. Comparative study of the methods used for treatment and final disposal of sewage sludge in
      European countries. Waste Manag. 2012, 32, 1186–1195. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
4.    Inglezakis, V.J.; Zorpas, A.A.; Karagiannidis, A.; Samaras, P.; Voukkali, I.; Sklari, S. European union legislation on sewage sludge
      management. Fresenius Environ. Bull. 2014, 23, 635–639.
5.    Song, X.D.; Xue, X.Y.; Chen, D.Z.; He, P.J.; Dai, X.H. Application of biochar from sewage sludge to plant cultivation: In-
      fluence of pyrolysis temperature and biochar-to-soil ratio on yield and heavy metal accumulation. Chemosphere 2014, 109,
      213–220. [CrossRef]
6.    Adam, C.; Peplinski, B.; Michaelis, M.; Kley, G.; Simon, F.G. Thermochemical treatment of sewage sludge ashes for phosphorus
      recovery. Waste Manag. 2009, 29, 1122–1128. [CrossRef]
7.    Nordin, A.; Strandberg, A.; Elbashir, S.; Åmand, L.-E.; Skoglund, N.; Pettersson, A. Co-Combustion of Municipal Sewage Sludge
      and Biomass in a Grate Fired Boiler for Phosphorus Recovery in Bottom Ash. Energies 2020, 13, 1708. [CrossRef]
8.    Thomsen, T.P.; Sárossy, Z.; Ahrenfeldt, J.; Henriksen, U.B.; Frandsen, F.J.; Müller-Stöver, D.S. Changes imposed by pyrolysis,
      thermal gasification and incineration on composition and phosphorus fertilizer quality of municipal sewage sludge. J. Environ.
      Manag. 2017, 198, 308–318. [CrossRef]
9.    Hossain, M.K.; Strezov, V.; Yin Chan, K.; Nelson, P.F. Agronomic properties of wastewater sludge biochar and bioavailability of
      metals in production of cherry tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). Chemosphere 2010, 78, 1167–1171. [CrossRef]
10.   Méndez, A.; Gómez, A.; Paz-Ferreiro, J.; Gascó, G. Effects of sewage sludge biochar on plant metal availability after application to
      a Mediterranean soil. Chemosphere 2012, 89, 1354–1359. [CrossRef]
11.   Méndez, A.; Tarquis, A.M.; Saa-Requejo, A.; Guerrero, F.; Gascó, G. Influence of pyrolysis temperature on composted sewage
      sludge biochar priming effect in a loamy soil. Chemosphere 2013, 93, 668–676. [CrossRef]
12.   Han, H.; Hu, S.; Syed-Hassan, S.S.A.; Xiao, Y.; Wang, Y.; Xu, J.; Jiang, L.; Su, S.; Xiang, J. Effects of reaction conditions
      on the emission behaviors of arsenic, cadmium and lead during sewage sludge pyrolysis. Bioresour. Technol. 2017, 236,
      138–145. [CrossRef]
13.   Lu, H.; Chen, H.; Li, W.; Li, B. Occurrence and volatilization behavior of Pb, Cd, Cr in Yima coal during fluidized-bed pyrolysis.
      Fuel 2004, 83, 39–45. [CrossRef]
14.   Farrell, M.; Jones, D.L. Heavy metal contamination of a mixed waste compost: Metal speciation and fate. Bioresour. Technol. 2009,
      100, 4423–4432. [CrossRef]
15.   Conesa, J.A.; Font, R.; Fullana, A.; Martín-Gullón, I.; Aracil, I.; Gálvez, A.; Moltó, J.; Gómez-Rico, M.F. Comparison between
      emissions from the pyrolysis and combustion of different wastes. J. Anal. Appl. Pyrolysis 2009, 84, 95–102. [CrossRef]
16.   Hossain, M.K.; Strezov, V.; Chan, K.Y.; Ziolkowski, A.; Nelson, P.F. Influence of pyrolysis temperature on production and nutrient
      properties of wastewater sludge biochar. J. Environ. Manag. 2011, 92, 223–228. [CrossRef]
17.   Zhang, Q.; Liu, H.; Liu, P.; Hu, H.; Yao, H. Pyrolysis characteristics and kinetic analysis of different dewatered sludge. Bioresour.
      Technol. 2014, 170, 325–330. [CrossRef]
18.   Zhu, X.; Zhao, L.; Fu, F.; Yang, Z.; Li, F.; Yuan, W.; Zhou, M.; Fang, W.; Zhen, G.; Lu, X.; et al. Pyrolysis of pre-dried dewatered
      sewage sludge under different heating rates: Characteristics and kinetics study. Fuel 2019, 255, 115591. [CrossRef]
19.   Leroy, V.; Cancellieri, D.; Leoni, E.; Rossi, J.-L. Kinetic study of forest fuels by TGA: Model-free kinetic approach for the prediction
      of phenomena. Thermochim. Acta 2010, 497, 1–6. [CrossRef]
20.   Zevenhoven, M.; Yrjas, P.; Skrifvars, B.-J.; Hupa, M. Characterization of Ash-Forming Matter in Various Solid Fuels by Selective
      Leaching and Its Implications for Fluidized-Bed Combustion. Energy Fuels 2012, 26, 6366–6386. [CrossRef]
21.   Baxter, L.L.; Miles, T.R.; Miles, T.R.; Jenkins, B.M.; Milne, T.; Dayton, D.; Bryers, R.W.; Oden, L.L. The behavior of inorganic
      material in biomass-fired power boilers: Field and laboratory experiences. Fuel Process. Technol. 1998, 54, 47–78. [CrossRef]
22.   Pettersson, A. Characterisation of Fuels and Fly Ashes from Co-Combustion of Biofuels and Waste Fuels in a Fluidised Bed
      Boiler. A Phosphorus and Alkali Perspective. Ph.D. Thesis, Comprehensive Summary. Chalmers Tekniska Högskola, Göteborg,
      Sweden, 2008.
23.   Moradian, F.; Tchoffor, P.A.; Davidsson, K.O.; Pettersson, A.; Backman, R. Thermodynamic equilibrium prediction of bed
      agglomeration tendency in dual fluidized-bed gasification of forest residues. Fuel Process. Technol. 2016, 154, 82–90. [CrossRef]
24.   Moradian, F. Co-Combustion of Municipal Solid Waste and Animal Waste: Experiment and Simulation Studies. Ph.D. Thesis,
      University of Borås, School of Engineering, Borås, Sweden, 2013.
25.   Falk, J.; Skoglund, N.; Grimm, A.; Öhman, M. Systematic Evaluation of the Fate of Phosphorus in Fluidized Bed Combustion of
      Biomass and Sewage Sludge. Energy Fuels 2020, 34, 3984–3995. [CrossRef]
26.   Elled, A.-L. Co-Combustion of Biomass and Waste Fuels in a Fluidised Bed Boiler: Fuel Synergism. Ph.D. Thesis, Chalmers
      University of Technology, Göteborg, Sweden, 2008.
Energies 2021, 14, 1477                                                                                                                 18 of 18




27.   Liu, J.; Fu, J.; Ning, X.; Sun, S.; Wang, Y.; Xie, W.; Huang, S.; Zhong, S. An experimental and thermodynamic equilibrium
      investigation of the Pb, Zn, Cr, Cu, Mn and Ni partitioning during sewage sludge incineration. J. Environ. Sci. 2015, 35,
      43–54. [CrossRef]
28.   Lindberg, D.; Backman, R.; Chartrand, P.; Hupa, M. Towards a comprehensive thermodynamic database for ash-forming
      elements in biomass and waste combustion—Current situation and future developments. Fuel Process. Technol. 2013, 105,
      129–141. [CrossRef]
29.   Hannl, T.K.; Sefidari, H.; Kuba, M.; Skoglund, N.; Öhman, M. Thermochemical equilibrium study of ash transformation during
      combustion and gasification of sewage sludge mixtures with agricultural residues with focus on the phosphorus speciation.
      Biomass Convers. Biorefinery 2021, 11, 57–68. [CrossRef]
30.   Bale, C.W.; Bélisle, E.; Chartrand, P.; Decterov, S.A.; Eriksson, G.; Hack, K.; Jung, I.H.; Kang, Y.B.; Melançon, J.; Pelton, A.D.; et al.
      FactSage thermochemical software and databases—Recent developments. Calphad 2009, 33, 295–311. [CrossRef]
31.   Arnout, S.; Nagels, E. Modelling thermal phosphorus recovery from sewage sludge ash. Calphad 2016, 55, 26–31. [CrossRef]
32.   Fraissler, G.; Jöller, M.; Mattenberger, H.; Brunner, T.; Obernberger, I. Thermodynamic equilibrium calculations concerning the
      removal of heavy metals from sewage sludge ash by chlorination. Chem. Eng. Process. Process Intensif. 2009, 48, 152–164. [CrossRef]
33.   Jakob, A.; Stucki, S.; Kuhn, P. Evaporation of Heavy Metals during the Heat Treatment of Municipal Solid Waste Incinerator Fly
      Ash. Environ. Sci. Technol. 1995, 29, 2429–2436. [CrossRef]
34.   Corella, J.; Toledo, J.M. Incineration of doped sludges in fluidized bed. Fate and partitioning of six targeted heavy metals. I. Pilot
      plant used and results. J. Hazard. Mater. 2000, 80, 81–105. [CrossRef]
35.   Roberts, T.L. Cadmium and Phosphorous Fertilizers: The Issues and the Science. Procedia Eng. 2014, 83, 52–59. [CrossRef]
36.   Strehlow, C.D.; Barltrop, D. Health studies. Sci. Total Environ. 1988, 75, 101–133. [CrossRef]
37.   Frandsen, F.; Dam-Johansen, K.; Rasmussen, P. Trace elements from combustion and gasification of coal—An equilibrium
      approach. Prog. Energy Combust. Sci. 1994, 20, 115–138. [CrossRef]
38.   Jeon, S.; Kim, D.-J. Enhanced phosphorus bioavailability and heavy metal removal from sewage sludge ash through thermochem-
      ical treatment with chlorine donors. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 2018, 58, 216–221. [CrossRef]
39.   Piotrowska, P.; Zevenhoven, M.; Davidsson, K.; Hupa, M.; Åmand, L.-E.; Barišić, V.; Coda Zabetta, E. Fate of Alkali Metals
      and Phosphorus of Rapeseed Cake in Circulating Fluidized Bed Boiler Part 1: Cocombustion with Wood. Energy Fuels 2010, 24,
      333–345. [CrossRef]
40.   Bagreev, A.; Bashkova, S.; Locke, D.C.; Bandosz, T.J. Sewage Sludge-Derived Materials as Efficient Adsorbents for Removal of
      Hydrogen Sulfide. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2001, 35, 1537–1543. [CrossRef]
