              energies
Article
Effects of Air Temperature and Humidity on the Kinetics of
Sludge Drying at Low Temperatures
Zhenyu Wang 1 , Lin Xu 2 , Dong Liu 2, *, Qing Zhang 1,2 , Anjie Hu 2 , Ruheng Wang 2 and Yongcan Chen 1, *

                                          1   School of Environment and Resources, Southwest University of Science and Technology,
                                              Mianyang 621010, China; 13916855538@163.com (Z.W.); zhangqing1211@126.com (Q.Z.)
                                          2   School of Civil Engineering and Architecture, Southwest University of Science and Technology,
                                              Mianyang 621010, China; linxu0716@163.com (L.X.); anjie@swust.edu.cn (A.H.); ruheng001@163.com (R.W.)
                                          *   Correspondence: dtld123@126.com (D.L.); chenyc@swust.edu.cn (Y.C.)


                                          Abstract: In this study, a low-air temperature sludge drying system was constructed and the effects
                                          of temperature and relative humidity on the characteristics of the system were investigated. The
                                          results showed that the drying rate of sludge increased with an increase in air temperature and a
                                          decrease in the air’s relative humidity. The influence of temperature on the average drying rate
                                          exhibited an approximate quadratic distribution, while the influence of relative humidity on the
                                          average drying rate exhibited an almost linear distribution. The relationship equations of the average
                                          drying rate, temperature, and humidity were summarized and compared with the experimental
         
                                   results, and the maximum relative error was 7.6375%. By comparing the experimental results with
                                          the commonly used thin-layer drying models, it was found that the sludge drying characteristics
Citation: Wang, Z.; Xu, L.; Liu, D.;
Zhang, Q.; Hu, A.; Wang, R.; Chen, Y.
                                          were more consistent with the Midilli model. Based on the relevant parameters of the Midilli model,
Effects of Air Temperature and            the relationship between the segmented drying moisture content and the average drying rate was
Humidity on the Kinetics of Sludge        proposed, and the empirical formula of the drying rate and MR under different conditions was fitted.
Drying at Low Temperatures. Energies
2021, 14, 7722. https://doi.org/          Keywords: sludge; drying characteristics; relative humidity; temperature
10.3390/en14227722


Academic Editors: Elena Rada,
Marco Ragazzi, Ioannis Katsoyiannis,      1. Introduction
Elena Magaril, Paolo Viotti, Hussain
                                               With the development of cities and industries, large quantities of sewage are produced
H. Al-Kayiem, Marco Schiavon,
                                          by daily life and industry. During the sewage treatment process, sludge is inevitably gener-
Gabriela Ionescu and Natalia Sliusar
                                          ated. Domestic sludge produced in the process of urban life and industrial production is
                                          directly discharged into the environment without treatment, causing serious pollution [1].
Received: 16 October 2021
Accepted: 15 November 2021
                                          At present, popular methods for sludge reduction include natural drying, sludge thicken-
Published: 18 November 2021
                                          ing, electrical dehydration, and mechanical dehydration. The most common method is
                                          mechanical dehydration, and many researchers have attempted to improve the dewatering
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
                                          capacity of sludge. Yu et al. [2] investigated the relationship between the repulsive force of
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
                                          sludge flocs, hydrophilicity/hydrophobicity, and sludge dewatering capacity and found
published maps and institutional affil-   that the dewatering capacity of waste-activated sludge was improved by reducing the
iations.                                  interaction of sludge flocs. Wei et al. [3] studied the modification of near-anode sludge by
                                          adding different doses of calcium oxide (CaO) to a sludge electrical dehydration system
                                          and found that the addition of 4% mu of CaO for near-anode modification resulted in the
                                          best dewatering effect in the shortest time. According to these results, most mechanical
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
                                          dehydration methods can only remove surface water. However, Otero et al. [4] considered
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
                                          that after mechanical dehydration, sludge has a highwater content, low calorific value, and
This article is an open access article
                                          large transportation volume, which are unsuitable characteristics for incineration during
distributed under the terms and           subsequent treatment; therefore, further drying of the sludge after mechanical dewatering
conditions of the Creative Commons        is important. Accordingly, a key direction in sludge treatment research is the development
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://     of drying technology.
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/               To improve sludge drying, the corresponding process and law must be investigated.
4.0/).                                    Sludge drying is a very complicated process, which can be understood as an unsteady heat



Energies 2021, 14, 7722. https://doi.org/10.3390/en14227722                                               https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                           2 of 15




                          and mass coupling and transfer process. Keey [5] considered that solid drying could be
                          divided into two parts: the evaporation of moisture on the surface of the solid and the
                          diffusion of moisture from the inside of the solid to the surface. The internal and external
                          concentration gradients are the driving force for moisture diffusion and follow Fick’s law.
                          Many researchers have investigated this heat–mass transfer process and determined the
                          drying curve to describe the sludge-drying process [6–12]. However, different studies have
                          determined different drying curves and focused on the characteristics of sludge and the
                          temperature of the drying atmosphere. From the perspective of heat and mass transfer,
                          sludge is a porous medium, and its drying process can be divided into two parts: internal
                          diffusion and external convection. Therefore, when the solid is considered as thin-layer
                          one-dimensional diffusion, a theoretical model of the moisture content of one-dimensional
                          diffusion with time can be obtained. This thin-layer drying model has been widely used,
                          and researchers have proposed a semi-theoretical model and empirical model. The authors
                          of [13,14] added parameters to the model proposed by previous studies based on their
                          experiment and then compared it with the existing model and selected experimental data
                          to propose a new thin-layer drying model. Although the proposed model does not provide
                          a theoretical basis, it has practical application value. Ghazanfari et al. [15] modified the
                          Midilli model. Corzo et al. [16] subsequently modified and optimized the model to give
                          meaning to the parameters of the equation, and proposed the Weibull model to describe
                          the drying phenomenon of materials more accurately. Reyes et al. [17] conducted research
                          on the drying kinetics of sludge from a municipal sewage treatment plant at different
                          temperatures and wind speeds and proposed a generalized drying curve equation based
                          on the modified quasi-stationary method and Fick’s second law. The authors of [18] found
                          that the improved Page model could better describe the drying process of paper mill
                          sludge in an oven. Yue et al. [19] found that the drying characteristic curve of a mixture of
                          municipal sludge and sawdust fit well with the Wang–Singh model. Guo et al. [20] used
                          two heating methods of constant temperature and constant power to dry two common
                          sludges: mechanical dewatering and compost dewatering methods. The results showed
                          that the output power had the greatest influence on energy consumption, energy efficiency,
                          and drying efficiency, followed by constant temperature and initial quality. The Midilli–
                          Kucuk model can better fit the constant-temperature drying mode. The aforementioned
                          studies conducted experiments and simulations for the drying of different materials and
                          established different drying models, most of which are for high-temperature drying. The
                          main influencing factors are the nature of the material and temperature, and experiments
                          are often required to determine the related parameters.
                                For sludge drying, the existing drying temperature is generally above 80 ◦ C. The main
                          factors affecting drying are the physical properties, structure, and drying temperature
                          of sludge. When the drying temperature is below 80 ◦ C, the relative humidity of the
                          dry air directly affects the drying effect; however, the current drying model does not
                          analyze this influence. To study the low-temperature drying characteristics of sludge,
                          this study conducted an experiment on the low-temperature drying characteristics of
                          municipal sludge obtained from the Mianyang area. The influences of sludge characteristics,
                          temperature, and relative humidity parameters on the average drying rate were considered.
                          The relationship between humidity changes and the thin-layer drying model based on the
                          average drying rate was summarized.

                          2. Materials and Methods
                          2.1. Materials
                               The test sludge was obtained from the Qixingba Municipal Sewage Treatment Plant in
                          Mianyang, Sichuan. The sludge was dewatered by a centrifugal thickening and dewatering
                          integrated machine process. Its composition was mainly colloidal with a complex structure
                          and a strong affinity for water, and it contained sediment, fibers, animal and plant residues,
                          condensed flocs, mycelium formed by a variety of microorganisms and the adsorbed
                          organic matter, parasite eggs, a low concentration of pathogenic microorganisms, heavy
 Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                  3 of 15




                                    watering integrated machine process. Its composition was mainly colloidal with a com-
    Energies 2021, 14, 7722         plex structure and a strong affinity for water, and it contained sediment, fibers, animal
                                                                                                                           3 of 15
                                    and plant residues, condensed flocs, mycelium formed by a variety of microorganisms
                                    and the adsorbed organic matter, parasite eggs, a low concentration of pathogenic micro-
                                    organisms, heavy metal salts, and other substances. The initial average wet-base moisture
                                       metal salts, and other substances. The initial average wet-base moisture content was
                                    content was approximately 64.6%.
                                       approximately 64.6%.
                                    2.2.2.2.
                                         Experimental
                                             ExperimentalDevice   andand
                                                             Device    Test Process
                                                                          Test Process
                                           The  experimental
                                              The   experimental device  used for
                                                                      device        low-temperature
                                                                               used for                 hot-air drying
                                                                                            low-temperature     hot-air isdrying
                                                                                                                           shown isin shown
                                                                                                                                      Figures in
                                    1 and    2. The  experimental     device   was   mainly   composed   of an  environmental
                                       Figures 1 and 2. The experimental device was mainly composed of an environmental           simulation
                                    boxsimulation
                                          (C7-1500 E    series,
                                                      box       WeissE Fuchs
                                                           (C7-1500      series, Environmental    Testing Instrument,
                                                                                 Weiss Fuchs Environmental        Testing Taicang   Co.,Taicang
                                                                                                                           Instrument,    Ltd.:
                                    Taicang,     China),  and   had  a  temperature     accuracy  of  ± 0.3 °C  and  humidity
                                       Co., Ltd.: Taicang, China), and had a temperature accuracy of ±0.3 C and humidity     ◦   accuracy   of
                                    ±3%. A
                                       accuracy pullof ±
                                                     pressure    sensor
                                                         3%. A pull       (HYLY-008
                                                                       pressure   sensorS series,  Hengyuan
                                                                                           (HYLY-008 S   series,Sensor
                                                                                                                  HengyuanCo., Ltd.:  Tianjin,
                                                                                                                               Sensor Co.,  Ltd.:
                                    China;    accuracy
                                       Tianjin,   China;of ±0.1
                                                           accuracyg) of
                                                                      was   used
                                                                          ±0.1  g) to
                                                                                    wasmeasure
                                                                                         used tothe  sludgethe
                                                                                                 measure     quality,
                                                                                                                 sludgeand   a digital
                                                                                                                         quality,  and asignal
                                                                                                                                          digital
                                    weighing      communication
                                       signal weighing               module module
                                                             communication      (HYRS-485      MODBUS) was
                                                                                            (HYRS-485    MODBUS)used to
                                                                                                                      wasrecord   therecord
                                                                                                                            used to    sludgethe
                                    quality
                                       sludge  in real time
                                                 quality      and time
                                                          in real  inputandtheinput
                                                                               data the
                                                                                      into a  computer,
                                                                                         data into        which were
                                                                                                   a computer,     whichused
                                                                                                                          weretoused
                                                                                                                                  control
                                                                                                                                      to the
                                                                                                                                          control
                                    temperature      and  relative  humidity     of the
                                       the temperature and relative humidity of the air.air.




                                    Figure
                                 Figure   1. 1. Schematic
                                             Schematic    of of
                                                             thethe  experimental
                                                                  experimental      device
                                                                                  device  (1.(1. environmental
                                                                                              environmental      testing
                                                                                                              testing     instrument;
                                                                                                                       instrument;   2. 2. drying
                                                                                                                                        drying
                                    chamber;    3. fan;  4. main    power  panel;  5. temperature     and humidity   test sensor; 6.
                                 chamber; 3. fan; 4. main power panel; 5. temperature and humidity test sensor; 6. water tank; 7. pullwater  tank;
Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                               4 of 15
                                    7. pullsensor;
                                 pressure    pressure
                                                    8. sensor;
                                                       sludge; 8.  sludge;
                                                                9. lead    9. 10.
                                                                        hole; leaddigital
                                                                                   hole; 10.  digital
                                                                                          signal      signal weighing
                                                                                                 weighing              communication
                                                                                                            communication                 module;
                                                                                                                              module; 11. lap-
                                 top).
                                    11. laptop).




                                        Figure 2. Pictures of experimental device.
                                      Figure 2. Pictures of experimental device.

                                           In the experiment, sludge (of the same quality) was dewatered by the centrifugal
                                      thickening and dehydrating integrated machine and was then loaded onto a 200 mm × 200
                                      mm × 2 mm steel plate. After forming, the quality and density of the thin sludge layer (2
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                             4 of 15




                               In the experiment, sludge (of the same quality) was dewatered by the centrifugal thickening
                          and dehydrating integrated machine and was then loaded onto a 200 mm × 200 mm × 2 mm
                          steel plate. After forming, the quality and density of the thin sludge layer (2 mm thick)
                          remained constant. The climate simulation box was opened, the temperature of the intel-
                          ligent temperature controller was set to the preset values (40 ◦ C, 50 ◦ C, and 60 ◦ C), the
                          relative humidity was set to the preset values (30%, 40%, 50%, and 60%), and the wind
                          speed was set to 1.5 m/s. When the environment in the climate simulation box reached a
                          stable state, the pre-prepared test materials were placed in the drying room and real-time
                          data were collected. The test data were automatically collected once every 10 min, and
                          each test was repeated three times.

                          2.3. Data Processing
                          (1)   Dimensionless sludge movement content ratio
                                The dimensionless sludge movement content ratio was calculated using Equation (1) [21]:

                                                                        Mt − Me
                                                                 MR =                                                  (1)
                                                                        M0 − Me

                          where MR is the dimensionless sludge movement content ratio, M0 is the initial dry basis
                          moisture content of the sludge (g/g), Me is the dry basis moisture content of the sludge
                          at equilibrium (g/g), and Mt is the dry basis moisture content of the sludge at time t
                          during the drying process (g/g). Because Me is very small compared to M0 , which can be
                          ignored [22], Equation (1) can be simplified as follows:

                                                                           Mt
                                                                    MR =                                               (2)
                                                                           M0

                          (2)   Drying rate
                                The drying rate (DR) refers to the amount of water removed per unit time (min), which
                          is calculated using by Equation (3) [23].

                                                                       Mt − Mt+∆t
                                                               DR =                                                    (3)
                                                                           ∆t
                          where ∆t is the time between data collection, which in this experiment is 10 min.
                          (3)   Average drying rate
                               The average drying rate (DR) is the ratio of the difference between the moisture
                          content of the dry basis of the sludge before and after drying to the total drying time
                          (g/(g·min)) and can be calculated as follows:

                                                                       M0 − Mend
                                                                DR =                                                   (4)
                                                                          ttotal

                          where Mend is the moisture content of dry base after drying and ttotal is the total time from
                          the beginning to the end of drying.
                               To better evaluate the accuracy of the model, the coefficient of determination (R2), root
                          mean square error (RMSE), and Chi-square (χ2 ) were determined using
                          Equations (5)–(7), respectively:
                                                                                            2
                                                        2        ∑ni=1 MRpre,i − MRexp,i
                                                      R = 1−                                2                         (5)
                                                                 ∑ni=1 MRpre,i − MRexp,i
                                                                                            !1
                                                                  1 n
                                                                                                 2


                                                                  n i∑
                                                      RMSE =            MRpre,i − MRexp,i                              (6)
                                                                     =1
  Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                           5 of 15



                                                                                                      2
                                                                     2 ∑ni=1 MRexp,i − MRpre,i
                                                                   χ =                                                                 (7)
                                                                                n−z
                                  where MRexp,i and MRpre,i are the experimental and predicted dimensionless moisture
                                  contents, respectively; n is the number of observations; and z is the number of constants.
                                  The larger the R2 , the smaller the χ2 and RMSE values, and the better the fit between the
                                  test value and the drying model [24].

                                  3. Results
                                  3.1. Influence of Drying Temperature on Sludge Drying Behavior
                                          Under different relative humidities, the sludge moisture content changed over time
                                     (Figures 3 and 4). At a relative humidity of 60%, the drying time (when the sludge
                                     MR decreased from 100% to 10%) reduced from 220 min to 80 min when the drying
Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                  6 of 1
                                     temperature increased from 40 ◦ C to 60 ◦ C. As the relative humidity decreased, the drying
                                     time decreased. At a relative humidity of 30%, the drying time (when the sludge MR
   Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW
                                     decreased from 100% to 10%) reduced from 100 min to 70 min when the drying temperature  6 of 15
                                     increasedinfrom     ◦        ◦
                                     change       the 40 C  to 60 C.
                                                      moisture        Therefore,
                                                                  content,       under the
                                                                            and the        same relative
                                                                                    moisture             humidity,
                                                                                                absorption capacitytheofhigher
                                                                                                                         humid theair is no
                                     drying  temperature,  the  shorter the time required
                                     significantly affected by the relative humidity.     for the sludge MR to decrease.
                                      change in the moisture content, and the moisture absorption capacity of humid air is not
                                      significantly affected by the relative humidity.




                                   Figure3.3.
                                  Figure
                                  Figure      Sludge MR
                                              SludgeMR
                                           3.Sludge   MRversus
                                                         versus
                                                       versus  drying
                                                              drying  time
                                                                 drying
                                                                     time   for different
                                                                         time
                                                                           for  for
                                                                               different  relative
                                                                                    different      humidities:
                                                                                               relative
                                                                                         relative               (a)30%,
                                                                                                        humidities:
                                                                                                  humidities:  (a)                       50%, (c) 50%
                                                                                                                                     (c)50%,
                                                                                                                               40%,(b)
                                                                                                                          (b)30%,
                                                                                                                    30%,(a)
                                                                                                                         (b)  40%,  (c) 40%,
                                   and (d)
                                  and(d)    60%.
                                       (d)60%.
                                            60%.
                                  and




                                   Figure4.4.Plot
                                  Figure     Plotof
                                                  ofdrying
                                                    dryingtime
                                                           timeversus
                                                                versus(a)
                                                                       (a)temperature
                                                                           temperatureand
                                                                                       and(b)
                                                                                           (b)relative
                                                                                               relativehumidity.
                                                                                                        humidity.

                                   Figure
                                        To4. better
                                              Plot ofillustrate
                                                      drying timetheversus (a) temperature
                                                                     influence             and (b)
                                                                                of temperature  on relative humidity.
                                                                                                    the drying   characteristics of
                                   sludge, Figure 5 plots the sludge drying rate against the sludge MR. This shows that the
                                        Torate
                                   drying    better    illustrate
                                                 decreased   as thethe
                                                                    MRinfluence
                                                                         decreased of  temperature
                                                                                    and that,         onsame
                                                                                              under the   the relative
                                                                                                               dryinghumidity
                                                                                                                       characteristics
                                                                                                                                 of      o
                                   sludge,   Figure   5  plots  the sludge  drying   rate against the  sludge   MR.  This
                                   the air, the maximum drying rate increased with an increase in temperature. The maxi-   shows   that the
  Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                              6 of 15




                                         A comparison of Figure 3a–d reveals that when the drying temperature was 60 ◦ C
                                   and the relative humidity of the drying environment was reduced from 60% to 30%, the
                                   drying time (when the sludge MR decreased from 100% to 10%) decreased from 90 min
                                   to 70 min. As the drying temperature decreased, the drying time increased. When the
                                   drying temperature was 40 ◦ C and the relative humidity of the drying environment was
                                   reduced from 60% to 30%, the sludge MR decreased from 100% to 10% and the drying
                                   time decreased from 220 min to 90 min. Therefore, at the same drying temperature, more
                                   time was required for the sludge water ratio to decrease with an increase in the relative
Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                              7 of 1
                                   humidity of the drying environment. At high temperatures, the time taken to dry materials
                                   to a moisture content of 0.2 is very small [25], and the process is basically unaffected by
                                   the relative humidity of the air. When sludge is dried at low temperatures, the change
                                   from
                                   in      0.022is affected
                                      the MR      g/(g·min)bytothe  0.010  g/(g·min)
                                                                       relative          (reduction
                                                                                 humidity of    the airate   of dry
                                                                                                         in the  45.5%).  From theas
                                                                                                                      environment,    heat
                                                                                                                                         well and mas
                                   as the drying temperature. This can be seen from the characteristics of moist air at low of the
                                   transfer    characteristics     of  humid    air,  it was   found    that  when    the relative  humidity
                                   temperatures,
                                   air               whereby
                                        increased, its           the relative
                                                           moisture             humidity of
                                                                         absorption             moist air
                                                                                         capacity          is significantly
                                                                                                    decreased,              affected
                                                                                                                   resulting in    a by    the in the
                                                                                                                                     decrease
                                   change    in moisture    content.     The lower    the  relative  humidity,    the
                                   drying rate. This phenomenon is more obvious when the temperature is not too low.  greater the   moisture
                                   absorption
                                          Figurecapacity.
                                                   5 showsAt  that high
                                                                     thetemperatures,
                                                                          sludge dryingthe       relativewas
                                                                                              process      humidity
                                                                                                               mainlyofcomposed
                                                                                                                          humid airof is three
                                                                                                                                          less phase
                                   affected by the change in the moisture content, and the moisture absorption capacity of
                                   with a reduction in the MR: I, rapidly increasing; II, gradually decreasing (or relatively
                                   humid air is not significantly affected by the relative humidity.
                                   stable);   and III, rapidly reducing drying ratio. The higher the temperature, the lower the
                                         To better illustrate the influence of temperature on the drying characteristics of sludge,
                                   relative
                                   Figure      humidity
                                            5 plots         and the
                                                     the sludge         shorter
                                                                   drying   rate the    gradually
                                                                                  against the        decreasing
                                                                                                sludge MR.          phase. that
                                                                                                               This shows    Thisthe
                                                                                                                                   is drying
                                                                                                                                      because as the
                                   evaporation       rate  of free   water    on  the   surface   of  the  sludge    increased,
                                   rate decreased as the MR decreased and that, under the same relative humidity of the           the  diffusion
                                                                                                                                            air,    rate
                                   inside
                                   the      the sludge
                                       maximum              could not
                                                    drying rate            be with
                                                                   increased   balanced     with in
                                                                                     an increase   the   evaporation
                                                                                                      temperature.    Therate of freedrying
                                                                                                                          maximum      water on the
                                   rate
                                   sludgeat 60 ◦ C  was The
                                              surface.    0.029 g/(g
                                                                critical·min), representing
                                                                           moisture             an during
                                                                                          content   increase of   34% I was
                                                                                                               phase    compared with      the
                                                                                                                                approximately        0.8
                                   maximum      drying   rate at  40 ◦ C. At a relative humidity of 30%, the maximum drying rate at
                                   whereas it was approximately 0.1 during phases II and III because the moisture conten
                                   60 ◦ C was 0.036 g/(g·min), representing an increase of 61% compared with the maximum
                                   of the   sludge stabilized and the effect of temperature could not lead to further dehydra
                                   drying rate at 40 ◦ C. Under the same drying relative humidity, the moisture required for the
                                   tion. Moreover, at different temperatures, the large difference in the drying rate wa
                                   humid air to reach saturation increased with an increase in temperature, thereby enhancing
                                   mainly observed at the stage of the MR changing from 0.8 to 0.1. This indicates that the
                                   the evaporation of free water on the surface of the sludge. At the same time, the increase in
                                   phases where
                                   temperature     alsothe  sludge drying
                                                        accelerates             rate varied
                                                                       the diffusion   migrationconsiderable      at different
                                                                                                    of water molecules    insidetemperatures
                                                                                                                                 the sludge,      were
                                   mainly     the constant-rate      drying
                                   thereby increasing the drying rate.         and   first  deceleration     phases.




                                     Figure5.5.Sludge
                                     Figure     Sludgedrying
                                                         drying    ratio
                                                                ratio    versus
                                                                      versus      the MR
                                                                              the MR      under
                                                                                      under       different
                                                                                            different       temperatures
                                                                                                      temperatures          at a relative
                                                                                                                   at a relative          humidity o
                                                                                                                                 humidity of
                                     (a)30%,
                                     (a) 30%,(b)
                                               (b)40%,
                                                   40%,(c)(c) 50%,
                                                           50%,  andand
                                                                      (d) (d)
                                                                          60%.60%.

                                     3.2. Influence of Different Relative Humidities and Temperatures on the Average Drying Rate of
                                     Sludge
                                           From the analysis above, it can be found that the low-temperature drying character
                                     istics of the sludge used in this study were closely related to the temperature and relative
 Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                     7 of 15




                                       At the same air temperature, the maximum drying rate of the sludge decreased with
                                 an increase in the relative humidity of the air. At 60 ◦ C, the relative humidity of the air
                                 increased from 30% to 60%, while the maximum drying rate decreased from 0.036 g/(g·min)
                                 to 0.028 g/(g·min) (reduction rate of 77.8%). Similarly, at 40 ◦ C, the relative humidity
                                 of the air increased from 30% to 60%, while the maximum drying rate decreased from
                                 0.022 g/(g·min) to 0.010 g/(g·min) (reduction rate of 45.5%). From the heat and mass
                                 transfer characteristics of humid air, it was found that when the relative humidity of the air
                                 increased, its moisture absorption capacity decreased, resulting in a decrease in the drying
                                 rate. This phenomenon is more obvious when the temperature is not too low.
                                       Figure 5 shows that the sludge drying process was mainly composed of three phases
                                 with a reduction in the MR: I, rapidly increasing; II, gradually decreasing (or relatively
                                 stable); and III, rapidly reducing drying ratio. The higher the temperature, the lower
                                 the relative humidity and the shorter the gradually decreasing phase. This is because as
                                 the evaporation rate of free water on the surface of the sludge increased, the diffusion
                                 rate inside the sludge could not be balanced with the evaporation rate of free water on
                                 the sludge surface. The critical moisture content during phase I was approximately 0.8,
                                 whereas it was approximately 0.1 during phases II and III because the moisture content of
                                 the sludge stabilized and the effect of temperature could not lead to further dehydration.
                                 Moreover, at different temperatures, the large difference in the drying rate was mainly
                                 observed at the stage of the MR changing from 0.8 to 0.1. This indicates that the phases
                                 where the sludge drying rate varied considerable at different temperatures were mainly
                                 the constant-rate drying and first deceleration phases.

                                 3.2. Influence of Different Relative Humidities and Temperatures on the Average Drying Rate
                                 of Sludge
                                          From the analysis above, it can be found that the low-temperature drying characteris-
                                    tics of the sludge used in this study were closely related to the temperature and relative
                                    humidity of the humid air. To better express its correlation, the average drying rate of the
                                    sludge is plotted as a function of temperature and relative humidity in Figure 6. Figure 6a
                                    shows that under the same relative humidity, the variation in the average drying rate with
                                    temperature exhibited an approximate quadratic distribution. In contrast, as the relative
                                    humidity decreased, the variation tended to be linear. Figure 6b shows that under the same
                                    temperature, the average drying rate tended to be linearly distributed with the relative
                                    humidity because the low-temperature drying of the sludge involved two processes. The
Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                        8 of 15
                                    first was the evaporation of water on the surface of the sludge, and the second was the
                                    diffusion of water from the inside of the sludge to the surface. When the temperature in-
                                    creased, the evaporation of the surface and the diffusion of internal water both accelerated
                                   ated
                                    suchsuch
                                          thatthat  the law
                                               the law       of change
                                                        of change  was awas a quadratic
                                                                         quadratic curve.curve.
                                                                                           WhenWhen     the relative
                                                                                                  the relative       humidity
                                                                                                               humidity        de-
                                                                                                                         decreased,
                                   creased,  the  evaporation   of water on the surface of the  sludge   accelerated, whereas
                                    the evaporation of water on the surface of the sludge accelerated, whereas the diffusion   theof
                                   diffusion
                                    internal of  internal
                                              water  was water   was thus
                                                          unaffected,unaffected, thus a linear
                                                                           presenting presenting a  linear distribution.
                                                                                               distribution.




                                            Averagedrying
                                 Figure6.6.Average
                                Figure              dryingrate
                                                           rateversus
                                                                versus(a)
                                                                       (a)temperature
                                                                           temperatureand
                                                                                       and(b)
                                                                                           (b)relative
                                                                                               relativehumidity.
                                                                                                        humidity.


                                     Owing to the obvious characteristics of the low-temperature drying of sludge, the
                                experimental law of changes in the average drying rate of sludge with temperature and
                                relative humidity was fitted. The air temperature and relative humidity data have differ-
                                ent orders of magnitude. When the levels of each index are very different, if the original
                                index value is used directly for analysis, it will highlight the role of the index with a higher
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                          8 of 15




                                      Owing to the obvious characteristics of the low-temperature drying of sludge, the
                                experimental law of changes in the average drying rate of sludge with temperature and
                                relative humidity was fitted. The air temperature and relative humidity data have different
                                orders of magnitude. When the levels of each index are very different, if the original index
                                value is used directly for analysis, it will highlight the role of the index with a higher value
                                in the comprehensive analysis, and the relative weakening value will be low. Therefore, the
                                role of indicators is to standardize the original data to ensure the reliability of the results.
                                The temperature and relative humidity data were normalized as follows:

                                                                             T − min(T)
                                                                      x=                                                            (8)
                                                                           max(T) − min(T)

                                                                             H − min(H)
                                                                     y=                                                             (9)
                                                                           max(H) − min(H)
                                     The value of the average drying rate is used as the dependent variable, and the
                                normalized air temperature and relative humidity values are used as the independent
                                variables. Linear regression fitting is performed on the experimental law of the average
                                drying rate changing with temperature and relative humidity. The fitting formula is shown
                                in Equation (10):

                                                   DR(x, y) = 0.004066x2 + 0.00475x − 0.006929y + 0.0131                          (10)

                                       The calculation results of the fitted formula compared with the experimental results are
                                   shown in Figure 7, which shows that the maximum relative error between the predicted and
 Energies 2021, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                     9 of 15
                                   experimental values was 7.6%. Therefore, this formula can well reflect the low-temperature-
                                   drying characteristics of sludge.




                                Figure7.7.Comparison
                                Figure    Comparisonof
                                                     ofthe
                                                        theaverage
                                                            averagedrying
                                                                   dryingrate
                                                                          ratepredicted
                                                                              predictedand
                                                                                        andexperimental.
                                                                                            experimental.

                                3.3.
                                 3.3. Comparison
                                      Comparison and
                                                   and Discussion
                                                       DiscussionofofThin-Layer
                                                                       Thin-LayerDrying
                                                                                    DryingModels
                                                                                           Models
                                      The
                                       The drying process of sludge mainly involves the
                                            drying  process  of sludge   mainly    involves  the transfer
                                                                                                  transfer ofof moisture
                                                                                                                moisture to
                                                                                                                          tothe
                                                                                                                              theouter
                                                                                                                                  outer
                                surface
                                 surface through pores and then transfer to the air by means of moisture migration.In
                                          through  pores and   then  transfer  to the air by means    of moisture   migration.   Inthis
                                                                                                                                    this
                                process,
                                 process,there
                                            theremay
                                                  maybebemany
                                                          manyforms
                                                                  formsofof
                                                                          material
                                                                            material migration within
                                                                                       migration   withinthethe
                                                                                                              sludge, andand
                                                                                                                 sludge,   thethe
                                                                                                                               driving
                                                                                                                                  driv-
                                forceforce
                                 ing    for for
                                             migration alsoalso
                                                 migration   differs.   Therefore,
                                                                 differs. Therefore, people
                                                                                       peoplehave
                                                                                               haveproposed
                                                                                                       proposeda avariety
                                                                                                                     varietyofofdrying
                                                                                                                                 drying
                                mechanism      models,  among    which   the  most   widely  used   is the thin-layer
                                 mechanism models, among which the most widely used is the thin-layer drying model.    drying   model.
                                The
                                 Thespecific
                                       specificforms
                                                formsare
                                                      arelisted
                                                          listedininTable
                                                                     Table1.1.

                                Table 1. Commonly used mathematical models of drying.

                                               Model                               Evaluation                        References
                                         Henderson and Pabis                    MR = a ∙ exp(−kt)                       [26]
                                            Midilli et al.                    MR = a ∙ exp(−kt ) + bt                   [13]
                                                                                              t
                                                Weibull                         MR = exp(−       )                       [16]
                                                                                              b
                                             Logarithmic                       MR = a ∙ exp(−kt) + c                     [27]
                                              Parabolic                         MR = a + bt + ct                         [28]
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                             9 of 15




                            Table 1. Commonly used mathematical models of drying.

                                             Model                             Evaluation                         References
                                  Henderson and Pabis                   MR = a· exp(−kt)                              [26]
                                     Midilli et al.                              (−ktn ) + bt
                                                                      MR = a· exp                                    [13]
                                                                                       a
                                       Weibull                         MR = exp − bt                                  [16]
                                       Logarithmic                     MR = a· exp(−kt) + c                           [27]
                                        Parabolic                       MR = a + bt + ct2                             [28]
                            Note: MR is the dimensionless sludge movement content ratio, t is the drying time (min), and k, n, a, and c are
                            related parameters.

                                 In order to better characterize the drying characteristics of sludge, 12 groups of
                            different air temperatures (60 ◦ C, 50 ◦ C, 40 ◦ C) and relative humidity (30%, 40%, 50%, 60%)
                            were selected for the change of sludge MR with drying time. The data were substituted into
                            the thin layer drying model (Table 1). Drying time was the independent variable, and MR
                            was the dependent variable. The model was calculated by nonlinear regression method
                            of the Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm. The 12 groups of fitting results of each model
                            were analyzed, and R2, χ2 , and RMSE were averaged to obtain Table 2. Table 2 shows that
                            the Midilli model had the best fitting effect, with the highest R2 and lowest RMSE and χ2
                            compared with the other models.

                            Table 2. Statistical analysis data of the thin-layer drying model for sludge drying.

                                      Model                         R2                           χ2                        RMSE
                              Henderson and Pabis                  0.9776                    0.0181                        0.0451
                                 Logarithmic                       0.9931                    0.0033                        0.0238
                                 Midilli et al.                    0.9983                    0.0006                        0.0118
                                  Parabolic                        0.9979                    0.0011                        0.0131
                                   Weibull                         0.9975                    0.0020                        0.0153


                                 By analyzing the Midilli model and substituting the experimental data under different
                            ambient temperatures and relative humidities into Table 3, it was found that the changes
                            in temperature and relative humidity had a considerable impact on the model coefficient
                            k but a small effect on coefficients a and n. Coefficient b was unaffected by changes in
                            temperature and relative humidity and represents the model’s correction coefficient. The
                            increase in temperature and the decrease in relative humidity increased coefficient k, the
                            value of which can reflect the average drying rate.

                          Table 3. Statistical analysis data of the Midilli model for sludge drying.

   T (◦ C)       RH (%)        Coefficient                  R2               χ2         RMSE          Number of Experimental Results
                                 a = 0.984
                                k = 0.00385
                    30                                    0.9975            0.0008      0.0142                        15
                                n = 1.3747
                           b = −9.7391 × 10−5
                                a = 0.97226
                                k = 0.00135
                    40                                    0.9964            0.0013      0.0186                        17
                                n = 1.54124
     40                    b = −1.0484 × 10−4
                                a = 0.98104
                                k = 0.00126
                    50                                    0.9970            0.0014      0.0195                        22
                                n = 1.42174
                           b = −3.35016 × 10−4
                                a = 0.9912
                                k = 0.00107
                    60                                    0.9991            0.0005      0.0119                        29
                                n = 1.3721
                           b = −2.33806 × 10−4
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                            10 of 15




                                                   Table 3. Cont.

   T (◦ C)       RH (%)       Coefficient             R2             χ2       RMSE        Number of Experimental Results
                                 a = 0.991
                               k = 0.00688
                    30                               0.9991         0.0002    0.0079                    11
                                n = 1.3578
                           b = 2.04084 × 10−4
                               a = 0.99141
                               k = 0.00488
                    40                               0.9989         0.0003    0.0094                    13
                               n = 1.37061
     50                     b = 1.4504 × 10−4
                               a = 0.98938
                               k = 0.00392
                    50                               0.9979     0.0007475     0.0141                    17
                               n = 1.32722
                          b = − 2.75094 × 10−5
                               a = 0.97369
                               k = 0.00139
                    60                               0.9975         0.0011    0.0174                    20
                               n = 1.49661
                           b = 2.13556 × 10−5
                               a = 0.99558
                               k = 0.01148
                    30                               0.9985         0.0002    0.0077                    9
                                n = 1.2222
                          b = − 8.28901 × 10−4
                               a = 0.99492
                               k = 0.00985
                    40                               0.9990         0.0002    0.0069                    10
                               n = 1.24047
     60                   b = −4.78734 × 10−4
                               a = 0.99422
                               k = 0.00795
                    50                               0.9991         0.0002    0.0070                    11
                               n = 1.28398
                          b = −2.15831 × 10−4
                                 a = 0.995
                                k = 0.0078
                    60                               0.9993         0.0002    0.0065                    12
                               n = 1.26838
                           b = −1.5784 × 10−4


                                 In actual engineering, it is difficult to determine the parameters for different temper-
                           atures and humidity using the Midilli model; hence, it is limited to certain restrictions
                           when applied in engineering. To better express the drying characteristics of sludge, the
                           average drying rate DR was used for fitting. DR is the drying speed of the material under
                           certain working conditions. Therefore, when the material thickness, air flow rate, and other
                           conditions are constant, under different air temperature and relative humidity, there will be
                           different DR values. Therefore, DR can be used to characterize the degree of influence of air
                           temperature and relative humidity on the drying of materials. Adding DR as a coefficient to
                           the thin-layer drying model formula can predict the drying of the material under different
                           air temperature and relative humidity conditions when the material thickness, air flow
                           rate, and other conditions are constant in the actual project.
                                 A new model is proposed based on the average drying rate. When the sludge is
                           dried below an MR of 0.2, the pores inside the sludge begin to collapse, which is different
                           from the previous drying process; thus, the drying process is divided into two stages.
                           The first stage is when the sludge begins to dry to a MR of 0.2, and the second stage is
                           when the sludge is dried to the state at a MR of 0.2. The first-stage calculation is given by
                           Equation (11):
                                                             MR = exp −DR·tn + a·tm
                                                                                         
                                                                                                                     (11)
                                The first term of the model represents the effect of temperature and relative humidity
                           upon drying, the second term represents the effect of other factors on sludge drying, and
                           DR is the average drying rate.
                                The fitting results for the first stage are listed in Table 4. For the sludge used in this
                           experiment, coefficient n = 1.201, coefficient a = 0.01, and coefficient m = 1. After fitting,
                           the average RMSE, χ2 , and R2 were 0.0120, 0.0006, and 0.9979, respectively.
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                                11 of 15




                               Table 4. Statistical analysis data of the first stage of the new model for sludge drying.

    T (◦ C)         RH (%)                Coefficient             R2              χ2            RMSE          Number of Experimental Results
                                         DR = 0.01321
                                           n = 1.201
                          30                                     0.9981         0.0005          0.0123                      9
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1
                                         DR = 0.010794
                                           n = 1.201
                          40                                     0.9932         0.0020          0.0232                      11
                                           a = 0.01
      40                                    m=1
                                         DR = 0.008378
                                           n = 1.201
                          50                                     0.9961         0.0013          0.0164                      15
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1
                                         DR = 0.005962
                                           n = 1.201
                          60                                     0.9983         0.0008          0.0109                      20
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1
                                         DR = 0.016747
                                           n = 1.201
                          30                                     0.9987         0.0003          0.0108                      7
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1
                                         DR = 0.014331
                                           n = 1.201
                          40                                     0.999          0.0002          0.0089                      8
                                           a = 0.01
      50                                    m=1
                                         DR = 0.011915
                                           n = 1.201
                          50                                     0.9995         0.0001          0.0057                      10
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1
                                         DR = 0.009499
                                           n = 1.201
                          60                                     0.9970         0.0008          0.0145                      12
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1
                                         DR = 0.022286
                                           n = 1.201
                          30                                     0.9987         0.0002          0.0106                      6
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1
                                         DR = 0.01987
                                           n = 1.201
                          40                                     0.9985         0.0003          0.0117                      7
                                           a = 0.01
      60                                    m=1
                                         DR = 0.017454
                                           n = 1.201
                          50                                     0.9988         0.0002          0.0103                      7
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1
                                         DR = 0.015038
                                           n = 1.201
                          60                                     0.9992         0.0002          0.0085                      8
                                           a = 0.01
                                            m=1


                                              The second-stage calculation is given by Equation (12):

                                                                   MR = exp −DR·tn + a·tm + b·(t − t0 )2 + c
                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                          (12)

                                        where t0 represents the time spent at the end of the first stage.
                                              The fitting results for the second stage are listed in Table 5. Coefficient a did not
                                        change, whereas coefficients n and m did change (n = 1.118; m = 1.12). Coefficient b was
                                        2.431 × 10−5 , and coefficient c was −0.1236. The average RMSE, χ2 , and R2 values after
                                        fitting were 0.0010, 0.0002, and 0.9831, respectively.
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                           12 of 15




                          Table 5. Statistical analysis data of the second stage of the new model for sludge drying.

  T (◦ C)       RH (%)                   Coefficient                 R2           χ2         RMSE        Number of Experimental Results
                                        DR = 0.01321
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  30                                               0.9746       0.0003       0.0148                    6
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.010794
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  40                                               0.9807       0.0001       0.0090                    6
                                           m = 1.12
    40                          b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.008378
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  50                                               0.9793       0.0002       0.0111                    7
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.005962
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  60                                               0.9912       0.0001       0.0047                    9
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.016747
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  30                                               0.9913       0.0001       0.0040                    4
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.014331
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  40                                               0.9938       0.0002       0.0037                    5
                                           m = 1.12
    50                          b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.011915
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  50                                               0.9636       0.0002       0.0091                    7
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.009499
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  60                                               0.9692       0.0001       0.0072                    8
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.022286
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  30                                               0.9732       0.0005       0.0223                    3
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.01987
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  40                                                0.989       0.0004       0.0188                    3
                                           m = 1.12
    60                          b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.017454
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  50                                               0.9966       0.0001       0.0073                    4
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236
                                        DR = 0.015038
                                      n = 1.201, a = 0.01,
                  60                                               0.9941       0.0001       0.0075                    4
                                           m = 1.12
                                b = 2.431 × 10−5 , c = −0.1236


                                          Figure 8 displays the relationship between the fitting MR errors under different
                                     conditions over time for the first and second stages. The maximum error was 10.9%,
                                     indicating that the model could adequately describe the drying characteristics of sludge.
                                     Hence, by combining Equation (10) with Equations (11) and (12), the change in the sludge
                                     MR can be calculated based on the environmental temperature, humidity, and sludge
                                     characteristics, thus providing excellent engineering application value.
                                Figure 8 displays the relationship between the fitting MR errors under different co
                          ditions over time for the first and second stages. The maximum error was 10.9%, indic
                          ing that the model could adequately describe the drying characteristics of sludge. Hen
                          by combining Equation (10) with Equations (11) and (12), the change in the sludge M
Energies 2021, 14, 7722   can be calculated based on the environmental temperature, humidity, and13sludge
                                                                                                       of 15  char
                          teristics, thus providing excellent engineering application value.




                          Figure   8. 8.
                                FigureRelationship
                                            Relationshipbetween     themodelled
                                                          between the    modelled
                                                                                and and   experimental
                                                                                    experimental MR errorsMR
                                                                                                           underrors  under
                                                                                                                different     different con
                                                                                                                          conditions
                                (a) the first stage (b) the second stage over time.
                          tions (a) the first stage (b) the second stage over time.
                                4. Conclusions
                          4. Conclusions
                                  In this study, sludge was dried at low temperatures, and the drying rate and MR curve
                                under different temperatures and relative humidities were obtained through experiments.
                                The following conclusions were made:
                                1.    Through regression analysis, the change law of average drying rate with temperature
                                      and relative humidity was studied. The results showed that the influence of temperature
                                      on the average drying rate exhibited an approximate quadratic curve distribution, while
                                      the influence of relative humidity on the average drying rate exhibited an almost linear
                                      distribution. The influence of temperature and relative humidity on the average drying
                                      rate DR can be described by DR(x, y) = 0.004066x2 + 0.00475x − 0.006929y + 0.0131.
                                      The maximum relative error calculated using the formula was 7.6%.
                                2.    Combining the Midilli model and coupling its k value to the average drying rate, a
                                      two-stage model based on the average drying rate was proposed. After fitting the rela-
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                            14 of 15




                                         tionships of different stages, a maximum error of 10.9% was obtained. The calculation
                                         method of sludge drying determined in this study has good application value.

                                   Author Contributions: Experimental test, Z.W.; writing—original draft preparation, L.X.; writing—
                                   review and editing, D.L.; acquisition and analysis of data, Q.Z.; analysis of data, A.H.; supervision,
                                   R.W.; supervision, Y.C. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
                                   Funding: This research was funded by National Natural Science Foundation of China, grant number
                                   11572269, The Project of Education Department in Sichuan, grant number 17ZA0405, 17ZB0439, and
                                   Open Fund of Key Laboratory of Icing and Anti/De-icing, grant number IADL20190311.
                                   Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
                                   Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
                                   Data Availability Statement: Data is contained within the article.
                                   Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References
1.    Couillard, D.; Zhu, S. Bacterial leaching of heavy metals from sewage sludge for agricultural application. Water Air Soil Pollut.
      1992, 63, 67–80. [CrossRef]
2.    Yu, W.; Wan, Y.; Wang, Y.; Zhu, Y.; Yang, J. Enhancing waste activated sludge dewaterability by reducing interaction energy of
      sludge flocs. Environ. Res. 2020, 196, 110328. [CrossRef]
3.    Wei, Y.; Zhou, X.; Zhou, L.; Liu, C.; Liu, J. Electro-dewatering of sewage sludge: Effect of near-anode sludge modification with
      different dosages of calcium oxide. Environ. Res. 2020, 186, 109487. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
4.    Otero, M.; Calvo, L.F.; Gil, M.V.; Garcia, A.I.; Moran, A. Co-combustion of different sewage sludge and coal: A non-isothermal
      thermogravimetric kinetic analysis. Bioresour. Technol. 2008, 99, 6311–6319. [CrossRef]
5.    Keey, R.B. Drying principles and practice. In SERBIULA (Sistema Librum 2.0); Pergamon Press: Oxford, UK, 1972.
6.    Léonard, A.; Blacher, S.; Marchot, P.; Pirard, J.P.; Crine, M. Convective Drying of Wastewater Sludges: Influence of Air Temperature,
      Superficial Velocity, and Humidity on the Kinetics. Dry. Technol. 2003, 23, 1667–1679. [CrossRef]
7.    Sherwood, T.K. The Drying of Solids—I. Ind. Eng. Chem. 2002, 21, 12–16. [CrossRef]
8.    Coackley, P.; Allos, R. The drying characteristics of some sewage sludges. J. Proc. Inst. of Sew. Purif. 1962, 6, 557–564.
9.    Wei, L.; Wang, X.; Li, R.; Pan, S. Experimental research and regression analysis for isothermal drying characteristics of dewatered
      sewage sludge. Acta Sci. Circumstantiae 2011, 31, 123–129.
10.   Bennamoun, L.; Fraikin, L.; Léonard, A. Modeling and Simulation of Heat and Mass Transfer During Convective Drying of
      Wastewater Sludge with Introduction of Shrinkage Phenomena. Dry. Technol. 2014, 32, 13–22. [CrossRef]
11.   Vaxelaire, J.; Cézac, P. Moisture distribution in activated sludges: A review. Water Res. 2004, 38, 2215–2230. [CrossRef]
12.   Deng, W.Y.; Yan, J.H.; Li, X.D.; Fei, W.; Lu, S.Y.; Yong, C.; Cen, K.F. Measurement and simulation of the contact drying of sewage
      sludge in a Nara-type paddle dryer. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2009, 64, 5117–5124. [CrossRef]
13.   Midilli, A.; Kucuk, H.; Yapar, Z. A new model for single-layer drying. Dry. Technol. 2002, 20, 1503–1513. [CrossRef]
14.   McMinn, W.A.M. Thin-layer modelling of the convective, microwave, microwave-convective and microwave-vacuum drying of
      lactose powder—Science Direct. J. Food Eng. 2006, 72, 113–123. [CrossRef]
15.   Ghazanfari, A.; Emami, S.; Tabil, L.G.; Panigrahi, S. Thin-Layer Drying of Flax Fiber: II. Modeling Drying Process Using
      Semi-Theoretical and Empirical Models. Dry. Technol. 2006, 24, 1637–1642. [CrossRef]
16.   Corzo, O.; Bracho, N.; Pereira, A.; Vásquez, A. Weibull distribution for modeling air drying of coroba slices. LWT-Food Sci. Technol.
      2008, 41, 2023–2028. [CrossRef]
17.   Reyes, A.; Eckholt, M.; Troncoso, F.; Efremov, G. Drying Kinetics of Sludge from a Wastewater Treatment Plant. Dry. Technol. 2004,
      22, 2135–2150. [CrossRef]
18.   Kai, L.; Xiao-Qian, M.A.; Han-Min, X. Experiment and kinetics model analysis on thin layer drying of paper mill sludge. J. Fuel
      Chem. Technol. 2011, 39, 149–154.
19.   Yue, L.; Wu, Z.; Nie, H. Thin layer drying characteristics and kinetics model of municipal sludge and sawdust mixture. Dry.
      Technol. Equip. 2013, 11, 51.
20.   Guo, J.; Zheng, L.; Li, Z. Microwave drying behavior, energy consumption, and mathematical modeling of sewage sludge in a
      novel pilot-scale microwave drying system. Sci. Total Environ. 2021, 777, 146109. [CrossRef]
21.   Mbegbu, N.N.; Nwajinka, C.O.; Amaefule, D.O. Thin layer drying models and characteristics of scent leaves (Ocimum gratissimum)
      and lemon basil leaves (Ocimum africanum). Heliyon 2021, 7, e05945. [CrossRef]
22.   Toğrul, İ.T.; Pehlivan, D. Mathematical modelling of solar drying of apricots in thin layers. J. Food Eng. 2002, 55,
      209–216. [CrossRef]
23.   Falade, K.O.; Abbo, E.S. Air-drying and rehydration characteristics of date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.) fruits. J. Food Eng. 2007,
      79, 724–730. [CrossRef]
Energies 2021, 14, 7722                                                                                                            15 of 15




24.   Doymaz, B. Drying kinetics, rehydration and colour characteristics of convective hot-air drying of carrot slices. Heat Mass Transf.
      2016, 53, 25–35. [CrossRef]
25.   Ramachandran, R.P.; Paliwal, J.; Cenkowski, S. Modeling of effective moisture diffusivity and activation energy of distillers’ spent
      grain pellets with solubles during superheated steam drying. Biomass Bioenergy 2017, 116, 39–48. [CrossRef]
26.   Henderson, S.M.; Pabis, S. Grain drying theory, II. Temperature effects on drying coefficients. J. Agric. Eng. Res. 1961, 44,
      1111–1122.
27.   Pirone, B.N.; Michelis, A.D.; Salvatori, D.M. Pretreatments Effect in Drying Behaviour and Colour of Mature and Immature
      ‘Napolitana’ Sweet Cherries. Food Bioprocess Technol. 2014, 7, 1640–1655. [CrossRef]
28.   Bi, J.; Yang, A.; Liu, X.; Wu, X.; Chen, Q.; Wang, Q.; Lv, J.; Wang, X. Effects of pretreatments on explosion puffing drying kinetics
      of apple chips. LWT-Food Sci. Technol. 2015, 60, 1136–1142. [CrossRef]
